{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 5}{\f0\fs24   What makes the cup in Benjamin\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sack so valuable is that it is Joseph\u8217\'92s own cup, and }{\f0\fs24\i1 the one in which he practices divination}{\f0\fs24  }{\f0\fs24\i1 (na\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7717\'3F\u275\'65\u353\'9A y}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 na\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7717\'3F\u275\'65\u353\'9A}{\f0\fs24 ). The force here of the infinitive absolute (}{\f0\fs24\i1 na\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7717\'3F\u275\'65\u353\'9A}{\f0\fs24 ) before the verb is uncertain; usually it lends extra emphasis to the verb.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Drinking goblets can be replaced more easily than divination goblets. The form of divination referred to here is oleomancy (pouring oil into water) or hydromancy (pouring water into oil), or the more general term lecanomancy (observing the actions of liquids in some kind of a container). When water and oil are mixed, configurations form which are then studied and interpreted by the diviner. Do the movements portend peace/war, success/failure, progeny/no progeny, recovered health/prolonged sickness, etc.? So important was divination in Mesopotamia that divinatory texts developed into the largest single category of Akkadian literature in terms of sheer number of texts.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Eating with Hebrews was anathema for the Egyptians. Attempting to ascertain the will of deity by studying the movements of oil and water was not. The first of these was an \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93abomination\u8221\'94 for the Egyptians (43:32b). The second of these was an abomination for the Hebrews (Lev. 19:26; Num. 23:23; Deut. 18:10). Only later did the Hebrews \u8220\'93become Egyptian\u8221\'94 in their attitude to eating with others. Recall the Samaritan woman\u8217\'92s surprise that Jesus would even drink water with her (John 4:9). But neither the Egyptians nor anybody in antiquity ever \u8220\'93became Hebrew\u8221\'94 in their repudiation of divination techniques.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge44.5;off=0;ctx=ining_his_brothers.$0A~5__What_makes_the_cu"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 559). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 8}{\f0\fs24   The third way in which the brothers deny complicity in the theft is by appealing to their own previous conduct. Would those who earlier returned the money found in their bags be so foolish to steal something valuable and sacred from the steward\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s master? According to the Midrash (Gen. Rabbah 92:7) Rabbi Ishmael (2nd century }{\f0\fs24\scaps a.d.}{\f0\fs24 ) remarked: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93this is one of the ten instancs of }{\f0\fs24\i1 qal wa-\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7717\'3Fomer}{\f0\fs24  [i.e., the argument from the minor to the major] in the Torah [i.e., the Bible].\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 The other nine are Exod. 6:12; Num. 12:14; Deut. 31:27; 1 Sam. 23:3; Jer. 12:5 (twice); Ezek. 15:5; Prov. 11:31; Esth. 9:12.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge44.8;off=0;ctx=_to_oath_violation.$0A~8__The_third_way_in_"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 562). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 9 }{\f0\fs24 Note that the brothers themselves decide on the harshest sentence: }{\f0\fs24\i1 he shall die.}{\f0\fs24  They do not say \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93he deserves to die\u8221\'94; they do not appeal to divine judgment. The thief is to be executed for committing a capital offense. That Jacob orders the death of the person who stole Laban\u8217\'92s teraphim, or that Joseph\u8217\'92s brothers suggest the death penalty for the one guilty of stealing Joseph\u8217\'92s goblet, cannot be used as proof for the existence of a special category of theft\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 stealing sancta. Indeed, v. 5 would suggest (the words that Joseph instructs his steward with which to charge his recently departed brothers) that the men would not even know it was Joseph\u8217\'92s own cup or that it was used for sacred purposes. Jacob\u8217\'92s sentence merely illustrates the total power of the paterfamilias. Joseph\u8217\'92s brothers are so certain of their innocence that they can afford this extravagant offer. It is a demonstration of their confidence in and conviction about their innocence. At one point Jacob\u8217\'92s proposed sentence is different from that of Joseph\u8217\'92s brothers. Jacob admitted liability of the actual theft. The brothers were prepared to admit communal liability. But one can be generous with proposals when one is convinced that little is at stake.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge44.9;off=1584;ctx=arches_his_home.$E2$80$9D20$0A~Note_that_the_brothe"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 563). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 10}{\f0\fs24   The steward responds. He begins by agreeing legally with the brothers. Their self-sentence is most appropriate in these circumstances. But then he proceeds to modify their proposal in two ways. First, the thief himself should not be killed, but enslaved. Second, the rest of the brothers should not be enslaved, but freed (}{\f0\fs24\i1 n}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 q\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u238\'EEyim}{\f0\fs24 ). The basic meaning of }{\f0\fs24\i1 n\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u257\'61q\u225\'E1}{\f0\fs24  (see 24:8, 41) is \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93be clean, pure.\u8221\'94 Here it takes on the derived sense of \u8220\'93free from servitude.\u8221\'94 It is ironic that the accused suggest a severer penalty and the accuser suggests a lighter penalty.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge44.10;off=0;ctx=little_is_at_stake.$0A~10__The_steward_resp"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 563). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 12 The steward searches Benjamin\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sack last to give the appearance that he suspects Benjamin the least.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 This is the second time that the brothers have been arranged by age. The first was at Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s table in Egypt (43:33). The way in which the eldest and the youngest are designated in each incident is different. In 43:33 Reuben in }{\f0\fs24\i1 habb}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7733\'3F\u333\'6Fr}{\f0\fs24 , but in 44:12 he is }{\f0\fs24\i1 hagg\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u257\'61\u7695\'3F\u244\'F4l}{\f0\fs24 . In 43:33 Benjamin is }{\f0\fs24\i1 ha\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7779\'3F\u7779\'3F\u257\'61\u703\'3F\u238\'EEr}{\f0\fs24 , but in 44:12 he is }{\f0\fs24\i1 haqq\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u257\'61\u7789\'3F\u333\'6Fn}{\f0\fs24 . The suspense of the situation is brought out in the Hebrew text by its emphasis on the goblet rather than on the steward. Instead of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93and he found the goblet in Benjamin\u8217\'92s bag,\u8221\'94 the text says, }{\f0\fs24\i1 and the goblet was found in Benjamin\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s bag.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge44.12;off=621;ctx=ects_her_the_least._~The_steward_searches"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 564). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 13 To their credit they do not at this moment abandon Benjamin, their guilty thieving brother, and head for Canaan as quickly as possible with their new supplies. Instead, they choose to return to Egypt. The brothers\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 solidarity with their vulnerable, young, guilty brother will not be overlooked by Joseph.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge44.13;off=471;ctx=planation_explored._~To_their_credit_they"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 564). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 15 }{\f0\fs24 Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s rhetorical question may be interpreted in one of two ways. He may have implied, \u8220\'93Why did you steal my cup? Don\u8217\'92t you know I need it for divining?\u8221\'94 Or he may have implied, \u8220\'93Did you think you could get away with stealing my cup? You know I am a master of divination and would have found you out, one way or the other.\u8221\'94 I prefer the second interpretation, for it underscores the utter helplessness of the brothers. They are foreigners in Egypt. They are thieves, or at least one of them is. They are at the mercy of a man who can track them anywhere with his divinatory power.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge44.15;off=410;ctx=rother_down_here$E2$80$99$3F$E2$80$9D$0A~Joseph$E2$80$99s_rhetorical_"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 565). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 16 }{\f0\fs24 Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s rhetorical question may be interpreted in one of two ways. He may have implied, \u8220\'93Why did you steal my cup? Don\u8217\'92t you know I need it for divining?\u8221\'94 Or he may have implied, \u8220\'93Did you think you could get away with stealing my cup? You know I am a master of divination and would have found you out, one way or the other.\u8221\'94 I prefer the second interpretation, for it underscores the utter helplessness of the brothers. They are foreigners in Egypt. They are thieves, or at least one of them is. They are at the mercy of a man who can track them anywhere with his divinatory power.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge44.15;off=410;ctx=rother_down_here$E2$80$99$3F$E2$80$9D$0A~Joseph$E2$80$99s_rhetorical_"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 565). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 17 }{\f0\fs24 Joseph is trusting that the brothers will not accept his counterproposal without protest. They were willing to leave Simeon behind and return to Canaan. Will they now leave Benjamin behind and return to Canaan? Of course, in the first instance Joseph had attached a proviso\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93If you want Simeon released and if you want more corn, you must go and bring back your youngest brother.\u8221\'94 Here Joseph is offering a permanent separation. He does not say: \u8220\'93If you want to see your youngest brother again, go and bring back your father.\u8221\'94 On the surface, Joseph wants the case closed. Happily, in v. 18 Judah steps forward and offers evidence why Joseph\u8217\'92s ruling is unacceptable to them.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge44.17;off=1076;ctx=oses_and_interests.$0A~Joseph_is_trusting_t"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 566). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 18-32 Thus vv. 18\endash 32 comprise the renarration of nine previous speeches.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge44.18-32;off=960;ctx=e_present_listener._~Thus_vv._18$E2$80$9332_compr"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 569). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Judah again places special emphasis on their father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s inability to survive without Benjamin, but carefully deleting Jacob\u8217\'92s initial refusal to release Benjamin (42:38). Benjamin\u8217\'92s failure to return to Canaan will bring about their father\u8217\'92s death. Judah suggests again in the third subsection (vv. 30\endash 31) what a fatal blow Benjamin\u8217\'92s detention in Eygpt would be to their father. Only at the end of this first section (v. 32) does he mention his own involvement in Benjamin\u8217\'92s well-being.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge44.18-32;off=3131;ctx=section_(vv._24$E2$80$9329)_~Judah_again_places_s"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 570). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 33-34}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 A spiritual metamorphosis for the better has certainly taken place in Judah. His speech to Joseph in ch. 44 represents a profound advancement over his speech about Joseph in 37:26ff. He who once callously engineered the selling of Joseph to strangers out of envy and anger is now willing to become Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s slave so that the rest of his brothers, and especially Benjamin, may be freed and allowed to return to Canaan to rejoin their father.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Among modern commentators only G. W. Coats focuses on factors other than a genuine change in Judah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s attitude and deportment. He suggests that Judah\u8217\'92s offer does not arise from any character change within, but from the exigencies of circumstances over which he has no control. He made an oath to his father. His options are twofold: Take his chances staying in Egypt (note that Judah uses a softer word, }{\f0\fs24\i1 stay}{\f0\fs24  [}{\f0\fs24\i1 y\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u275\'65\u353\'9Ae\u7687\'3F}{\f0\fs24 , lit., \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93dwell\u8221\'94], rather than a stronger word, like \u8220\'93be bound\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93enslaved\u8221\'94), or live under the guilt of a broken surety oath. But is not Judah\u8217\'92s taking of the oath in the first place dictated by the knowledge that vicarious suffering is a real possibility in the near future? Whence springs this willingness to become Benjamin\u8217\'92s substitute, if not from a dynamic, spiritual change within Judah?}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge44.33-34;off=817;ctx=_a_life_for_a_life.$0A~A_spiritual_metamorp"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 570). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0}