{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 1. Joseph gave these instructions.}{\f0\fs24  As God tested the reality of Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faith (see 22:1), Joseph tests the genuineness of his once hateful brothers\u8217\'92 conversion.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 in the mouth of his sack.}{\f0\fs24  When the steward searches the brothers\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 sacks (44:12), they will all look guilty of theft. Nevertheless, the steward will clear all of them of any charges except Benjamin. If motivated by selfish interests, not the good of the family, the brothers are being given every reason to free themselves from slavery and abandon Benjamin.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge44.1;off=0;ctx=_Brothers_(44:1$E2$80$9313)$0A~1._Joseph_gave_these"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 559). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 youngest one\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sack.}{\f0\fs24  The original crime pertained to the brothers\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 hatred of Joseph, Rachel\u8217\'92s son and Jacob\u8217\'92s favorite, and the brothers selling him into slavery. Joseph brilliantly recreates the same grouping. Will they remain loyal to Joseph\u8217\'92s full brother even when he looks guilty of theft? Or will they abandon him in Egypt as they had innocent Joseph?}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge44.2;off=431;ctx=Reflections_below).$0A~youngest_one$E2$80$99s_sack."}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 559). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 4. the city.}{\f0\fs24  This is in the region of Goshen but otherwise unidentified.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge44.4;off=0;ctx=cal_day_of_testing.$0A~4._the_city._This_is"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 560). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 5. divination.}{\f0\fs24  The techniques of hydromancy (pouring water into oil), oelomancy (oil into water), and oenomancy (wine into another liquid) were commonplace in the ancient Near East. Through the surface patterns formed by pouring one type of liquid upon another, the practitioner professed to determine the mind of the gods with reference to the future, to the source of trouble, or to the truth of guilt or innocence. Referring to the wine goblet as a divining cup contributes to the ruse. Joseph receives revelation from God alone (37:5\endash 9; 41:16; see Theological Reflections below).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge44.5;off=0;ctx=th_evil._See_50:20.$0A~5._the_cup._His_expr"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 560). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 10 }{\f0\fs24\b1 the rest of you will be free.}{\f0\fs24  They will be free from servitude. When Benjamin is found to have the cup, they will be confronted with a choice that has significant similarities to their choice with Joseph. Benjamin, like Joseph, is innocent, but they are free to leave him in slavery in Egypt.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 11. quickly lowered.}{\f0\fs24  This shows their innocence.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge44.10;off=425;ctx=_slave_(see_44:17).$0A~the_rest_of_you_will"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 560). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 13. they tore their clothes.}{\f0\fs24  Their actions confirm their character change. They now show affection for their father and brother (contra 37:34).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 all \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85 returned.}{\f0\fs24  They pass the test; they do not abandon their brother}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge44.13;off=0;ctx=before_(see_43:33).$0A~13._they_tore_their_"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 560). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 14. Judah.}{\f0\fs24  He is clearly the leader.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge44.14;off=0;ctx=of_Judah_(44:14$E2$80$9334)$0A~14._Judah._He_is_cle"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 561). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 16. Judah replied.}{\f0\fs24  In this first speech Judah makes three points: he protests the brother\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s innocence of the theft, confesses their dilemma as due to God\u8217\'92s judgment for previous guilt, and finally offers all of the brothers as slaves. In that way he undoes the rash oath to kill the guilty and avoids having to face their father.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 How can we prove our innocence?}{\f0\fs24  The circumstantial evidence against them is so overwhelming, it is pointless to defend themselves.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 God has uncovered your servants\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 guilt.}{\f0\fs24  He cannot be referring to the goblet, for he has just asserted their innocence. He may be referring to guilt in general, but more probably to their crime against Joseph. If so, they confess their crime against Joseph twice in his presence (42:21).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge44.16;off=0;ctx=njamin$E2$80$99s_innocence.$0A~16._Judah_replied._I"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 561). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 18 }{\f0\fs24 He first rehearses the history of their two journeys to Egypt, focusing on their father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s great reluctance to accede to Joseph\u8217\'92s demand to send the son lest he suffer the pain of losing another son (44:18\endash 29). He emphasizes that the loss of this son will kill the father (44:30\endash 31). He culminates his appeal by asking Joseph to allow him to fulfill his pledge and become the slave in the boy\u8217\'92s stead to spare his father misery (44:32\endash 34).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge44.18;off=172;ctx=ercy_to_his_father._~He_first_rehearses_t"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 561). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 33. in place of the boy.}{\f0\fs24  This first instance of human substitution in Scripture reveals a different Judah than the one who sold his brother into slavery (37:26\endash 27). Sternberg notes, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Simply, Judah so feels for his father that he begs to sacrifice himself for a brother more loved than himself.\u8221\'94}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge44.33;off=0;ctx=f_as_a_possibility.$0A~33._in_place_of_the_"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 562). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 34. see the misery.}{\f0\fs24  A formerly callused Judah (see 37:34\endash 35) is now compassionate. Sternberg explains, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93That Judah should adduce the father\u8217\'92s favoritism as the ground for self-sacrifice is such an irresistible proof of filial devotion that it breaks down Joseph\u8217\'92s last defenses.\u8221\'94 Judah\u8217\'92s love excels (see 43:3). He is worthy of kingship.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge44.34;off=0;ctx=d_than_himself.$E2$80$9D122$0A~34._see_the_misery._"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 562). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24}