{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;\red240\green240\blue240;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (44:6\endash 13) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Family\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Home}{\f0\fs24 : Are we willing to stand by the family? This is the second test of loyalty: being willing to stand by the family no matter what confronts them.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. There was a strong charge made against the brothers (v. 6). The steward quickly caught the brothers and leveled the charge of stealing against them.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 b. But they made a clear declaration of innocence (v. 7).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab They strongly declared their honesty: since they had returned the money they had found in their sacks on their first trip, why would they steal silver or gold now (vv. 7}{\f0\fs24\super b}{\f0\fs24 \endash 8)?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Note that they declared their willingness to stand together as a family unit (v. 9). They were so confident of their innocence, they made a rash suggestion: if the silver cup was found stolen by any one of them, let him be executed, and the other brothers would become slaves of Joseph.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2;ref=Bible.Ge44.6-13;off=0;ctx=avity$E2$80$9D_(1_Ti._3:4).$0A~2_(44:6$E2$80$9313)_Family$E2$80$94H"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 355). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 But note what they did: they proved their loyalty to the family. They passed the first stage of the test given by Joseph, passed it with flying colors. They were not going to forsake Benjamin. They were not going to allow even one member to be ripped apart from the family. The steward had said the innocent brothers were free: they could turn and go home. But this they were not going to do. They were going to stand together as a family. Together, they loaded their donkeys and returned to the city where the governor, Joseph, was waiting to charge them with the crime of stealing and most likely to enslave them (v. 13). When they walked into Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s house, he would learn what he had hoped: the brothers had undergone a tremendous change within their hearts. They were learning the great importance of }{\f0\fs24\i1 the chosen family}{\f0\fs24 : they were now willing to stand together as }{\f0\fs24\i1 the chosen family of believers}{\f0\fs24 . They were now willing to stand together to face whatever might come, no matter how terrible the situation was.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2;ref=Bible.Ge44.6-13;off=2428;ctx=_nor_where_to_turn.$0A~But_note_what_they_d"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 355). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (44:14\endash 17) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Family\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Forgiveness}{\f0\fs24 : Are we willing to seek forgiveness with the family? This is the third test of loyalty: being willing to seek forgiveness with the family no matter how serious the failing. Some twenty years earlier, the brothers had failed in the most terrible way possible for a person to fail: they had threatened to kill Joseph but ended up selling him into slavery. And they had never confessed their sin to anyone so far as is known: not to their father nor to God and, of course, never to Joseph. They needed to confess it to all three, especially to God. Now they were going to get the opportunity to confess to God and to Joseph. Would they pass this test? And if so, would they do it begrudgingly or with the same flying colors they had just demonstrated with Benjamin? Were the sons going to confess and repent in order to be converted, become true followers of God? Note what happened when they confronted Joseph.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. There was a strong united act: they all demonstrated humility together (vv. 14\endash 15). As soon as they entered the house of Joseph, they fell to the floor bowing before him. Joseph was no doubt overjoyed to see them all together standing by the side of their brother Benjamin. He now knew they were committed to stand together as a family, every one of them. Now, with God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s help, he needed to lead them to confession and repentance of their sin and to a commitment to stand together in following God}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2;ref=Bible.Ge44.14-17;off=2;ctx=ous$E2$80$9D_(1_Pe._3:8).$0A3_~(44:14$E2$80$9317)_Family$E2$80$94Fo"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 356). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1)\tab Note their confession: God }{\f0\fs24\i1 had uncovered and found out their sin}{\f0\fs24 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 not just Benjamin\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sin, but their sin, the sin for which they were all guilty. Judah was confessing that they were all guilty of sin, and God was now punishing them for it. God was punishing Benjamin, yes, but also punishing them for the sin they had committed in the past, the terrible sin of having sold their brother into slavery. Judah did not mention this sin publicly. That had already been done earlier in the presence of Joseph and his interpreter (Ge. 42:21\endash 24). But the meaning of Judah\u8217\'92s confession is clear: God had uncovered the sins of all the brothers, and they were now ready and willing to bear God\u8217\'92s punishment. They were now ready to become the slaves of Joseph, all of them together, for they were all guilty before God (v. 16).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Note the declaration of belief in God: that He holds us accountable.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Note the confession: they were all guilty of sin.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Note the repentance: they were now ready and willing to follow God\u8217\'92s will even if it meant being punished for their sins.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2;ref=Bible.Ge44.14-17;off=2373;ctx=r_all_the_brothers.$0A~1)_Note_their_confes"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 356). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 c. The test continued: Joseph just felt compelled to prove that the brothers were totally loyal to each other and to the family of God (v. 17). He declared that he could not enslave the innocent brothers, only the brother who had stolen the cup. Then he charged all the brothers to leave and go back home, all except Benjamin, the suspected thief.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2;ref=Bible.Ge44.14-17;off=4424;ctx=osen_family_of_God.$0A~c._The_test_continue"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 356). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24


\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clcbpat5\cellx4000

\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps\cb5\highlight5 Deeper Study}{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5  # 1}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 (44:15) }{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 Divination\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Fortune-Telling\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Sorcery}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 : divination is a heathen custom that has been practiced throughout the ages in all civilizations. The particular practice mentioned here used either oil by itself or else water with gold or silver in the bottom of a bowl or cup. The rays of light reflecting from the oil or water would form certain designs that were supposed to reveal the future.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\fi360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 Did Joseph actually practice this heathen custom, practice it of his own free will? Or was he, as the governor of Egypt, expected to practice the custom? Did he practice it in order to accommodate the people\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s expectation? Or was Joseph just associating himself with the sacred cup in order to drive more fear into his brothers? Identifying the cup as a cup of divination would place far more value upon it. This would make the penalty for stealing it far worse. The brothers would sense far more guilt for having stolen it and expect a far stiffer sentence.}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 It is very unlikely that Joseph practiced divination, for God issues strict warnings against the practice. Joseph most likely was just referring to the cup as a cup of divination in order to strike more fear in the brothers. The more important the cup the more fear, and the more they feared, the more likely they were to turn away from Benjamin to let him face the sentence all alone. This test was going to show exactly how strongly they were committed to each other and to the family. If they were totally committed to the family, they would stand by the side of Benjamin, bearing the penalty with him. If they had any lack of loyalty whatsoever\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 any weakness of attachment to the family\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 they would leave Benjamin to face the penalty alone.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2;ref=Bible.Ge44.14-17;off=7927;ctx=_die$E2$80$9D_(Eze._18:21).$0A~Deeper_Study_$23_1$0A(44"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 357). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24\cell{
\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clcbpat5\cellx4000
\row}\pard
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 18-23}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Practically every commentary on Genesis stresses the strength of Judah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s plea. In the speech, Judah stood forth as a magnificent picture of Christ, of His great intercession and voluntary sacrifice for mankind. The tenderness and warmth of his words and the love expressed for his father are seldom seen among men. And just imagine: this came from the heart of a man who had been so mean and sinful, so immoral and evil, that he had broken the heart of his father years before. Judah is a dynamic example of the glorious mercy of God. If Judah and his brothers could be saved, then any person can be saved.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 b. Judah reminded Joseph of }{\f0\fs24\i1 the demand}{\f0\fs24  he had made of them. Note the facts Judah stressed (vv. 18\endash 23).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He reminded Joseph of his inquiry about their family, asking if they had a brother or father (v. 19).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He reminded Joseph of their father: that their father was old and had two other sons. One son was dead and the other son was the child of their father\u8217\'92s old age. And their father loved him dearly (v. 20).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He reminded Joseph of }{\f0\fs24\i1 his demand}{\f0\fs24  to bring Benjamin to Egypt to prove that they were telling the truth (v. 21).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He reminded Joseph of their caution and reservation: taking Benjamin from their father might kill him (v. 22).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He reminded Joseph of }{\f0\fs24\i1 his insistence}{\f0\fs24 : they had to bring Benjamin, or they would never be allowed to see the governor\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s face again; they would never be allowed to get any more food (v. 23).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2;ref=Bible.Ge44.18-34;off=2269;ctx=werful_as_Judah$E2$80$99s.5$0A~Practically_every_co"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 358). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 c. Judah related how the brothers had told their father about }{\f0\fs24\i1 the demand}{\f0\fs24  of the governor (vv. 24\endash 29). Note that Joseph had no way to know about these facts. He was hearing for the very first time what had happened when his brothers had returned home to their father.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He related how the need for more food arose (v. 25).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He related how the sons reminded their father of }{\f0\fs24\i1 the demand}{\f0\fs24  of the governor: the youngest brother had to go with them (v. 26).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He related their father\u8217\'92s response: his wife had borne him two sons and one had been torn to pieces (vv. 27\endash 28).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He related how their father feared losing the second son: losing him would kill their father (v. 29).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 d. Judah related his great concern (vv. 30\endash 31). Note that his concern was not Benjamin\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s guilt or innocence nor the freedom or enslavement of the brothers. Judah\u8217\'92s concern was his father. He did not want the heart of his father to be broken. Judah loved his father so much that he did not even want him to suffer pain. Note what he related to the governor:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Their father\u8217\'92s life was closely bound up with Benjamin (v. 30).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Their father would die if the boy were not with them when they returned home (v. 31}{\f0\fs24\super a}{\f0\fs24 ).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab The sons\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the servants of Joseph\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 would therefore be guilty of killing their father because they did not bring the boy home (v. 31}{\f0\fs24\super b}{\f0\fs24 ).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 e. What now happened was very significant: Judah pleaded his case before Joseph, proving his loyalty and love to the family beyond any question.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1)\tab Judah shared that he had personally become surety for Benjamin (v. 32). If he failed to take the boy to his father, then he would bear the blame for the rest of his life.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2)\tab Judah then did an amazing thing. He offered to }{\f0\fs24\i1 sacrifice himself}{\f0\fs24  for Benjamin (vv. 32\endash 33). He asked Joseph to let him become the slave and to free Benjamin, letting him go home to his father (v. 32). He offered \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab to become the substitute for Benjamin}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab to accept the punishment due Benjamin}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab to bear the guilt for Benjamin}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab to suffer in behalf of Benjamin}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab to give his life for the life of Benjamin}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab to switch places with Benjamin}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Note why Judah did this: because of his father. How could he possibly go back to his father if Benjamin were not with him? His father would suffer undue misery, and he, Judah, would have to see his father suffer the misery for the rest of his life (v. 23).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2;ref=Bible.Ge44.18-34;off=3707;ctx=_more_food_(v._23).$0A~c._Judah_related_how"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 358\endash 359). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b1
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 2}{\f0\fs24 . Note how Judah became a magnificent picture of Christ in the above scene. Henry Morris states it well:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\i1 In this willingness to give his own life in place of his brother\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s, for the sake of his father, Judah becomes a beautiful type of Christ, more fully and realistically than even Joseph himself, who is often taken by Bible expositors as a type of Christ. \u8220\'93Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us: and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren\u8221\'94 (1 John 3:16)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\i1 In fact, although Scripture does not say this in so many words, the problem as to why Judah, rather than Joseph, was selected to be the ancestor of the Messiah probably has its solution right here. Judah, in his willingness to sacrifice himself, the innocent for the guilty, had become the most Christlike of all his brothers}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 This was it, the end of Judah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s speech. Joseph now knew that God had done a marvelous work in their lives.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2;ref=Bible.Ge44.18-34;off=6254;ctx=position_and_honor$3F$0A~Thought_2._Note_how_"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 359). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}