{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 6-13 So they load up their donkeys and return in trepidation to the city. The significance of that moment is not to be overlooked. According to the terms set by the steward, only the guilty party would be punished. The other brothers were free. Conceivably, they could have abandoned their brother to his fate, ridding themselves again of their father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s favourite son. But they choose solidarity with Benjamin ahead of their own self-interest. Here is a model for the church family. It is the members who put solidarity (even with the party apparently in the wrong) before self-interest, who have discerned the way of God.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Wilcox, P. (2007). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/lvngdrmjos;ref=Bible.Ge44.6-13;off=3300;ctx=ow_by_their_father.$0A~So_they_load_up_thei"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Living the Dream: Joseph for Today: A Dramatic Exposition of Genesis 37\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 75\endash 76). Milton Keynes, UK; Colorado Springs, CO; Secunderabad, AP: Paternoster.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 14-34 Judah says to Joseph, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91God has found out our guilt.\u8217\'92 The ironies that run through the narrative are at their greatest here. The reader is in no doubt that Judah\u8217\'92s words refer not to the theft of the cup, but to the sin the brothers had committed over twenty years previously against their brother\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 who now stands before them as their judge. He knows they are innocent of this crime, and he knows they are guilty of the other crime. They know (or they think they know) that he is convinced of their guilt in relation to this crime and that he is ignorant of the earlier one. Somehow the sin the brothers are not able to confess prevents them from defending themselves fully over the sin they have not committed.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Wilcox, P. (2007). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/lvngdrmjos;ref=Bible.Ge44.14-34;off=4699;ctx=defend_ourselves$3F$E2$80$99,_~Judah_says_to_Joseph"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Living the Dream: Joseph for Today: A Dramatic Exposition of Genesis 37\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 78). Milton Keynes, UK; Colorado Springs, CO; Secunderabad, AP: Paternoster.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 However, the acknowledgement of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s judgment and the real selflessness of Judah\u8217\'92s offer (even in the face of his father\u8217\'92s continued favouritism, compare verse 20 and the reference to Rachel as if she was Jacob\u8217\'92s only wife in verse 27) demonstrate how much the brothers have changed in that time.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Judah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s act of self-sacrifice is all the more impressive given the context of adversity. His family face famine and his father is frail. The temptation must have been strong to think, \u8216\'91What I have, I hold.\u8217\'92 The same dynamics beset the church. The tendency to behave in partisan ways is great when the future is bleak, and in such circumstances, self-sacrificial behaviour is correspondingly heroic.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Wilcox, P. (2007). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/lvngdrmjos;ref=Bible.Ge44.14-34;off=8858;ctx=r_twenty_two_years._~However,_the_acknowl"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Living the Dream: Joseph for Today: A Dramatic Exposition of Genesis 37\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 79\endash 80). Milton Keynes, UK; Colorado Springs, CO; Secunderabad, AP: Paternoster.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}