{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ri0\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Please read Genesis 45, then answer the following questions:\line 1. How was Joseph affected by Judah\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s speech, and what did he do (vv 1,2)?\line 2. What did he tell his brothers, and how did they react (v3)? (Think: Why would they react this way? How would they feel?)\line 3. Was Joseph angry with his brothers? What was his explanation for what had happened (vv 4-8)? (Think: Did Joseph mean his brothers were not responsible for how they had treated him? Explain.)}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 4. Special Assignment: Explain how vv 5-8 give a good explanation of providence.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 5. What did Joseph say the brothers should do next (vv 9-13)? Why? (Think: What does all this show regarding how thoroughly Joseph had thought out this situation?)\line 6. Where did Joseph say his family could live (see map)?\line 7. How did he then greet the brothers?\line 8. Who heard about Joseph\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s brothers, and what did he say to do? 9. Summarize what Joseph gave his brothers. (Think: Explain v24.)\line 10. What did Jacob first think when his sons told him the news?\line 11. What convinced Jacob, and what did he conclude? (Think: How would all this affect Jacob?)}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 12. Special Assignment: Summarize the lessons we learn from this story about forgiveness.\line }
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1}