{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 Joseph Provides for His Brothers and Family}
\par\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs36\b1 45\~}{\f0\fs24 Then Joseph could not control himself before all those who stood by him. He cried, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Make everyone go out from me.\u8221\'94 So no one stayed with him when Joseph made himself known to his brothers. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 2\~}{\f0\fs24 And he wept aloud, so that the Egyptians heard it, and the household of Pharaoh heard it. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 3\~}{\f0\fs24 And Joseph said to his brothers, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I am Joseph! Is my father still alive?\u8221\'94 But his brothers could not answer him, for they were dismayed at his presence. }
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b1\super
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 4\~}{\f0\fs24 So Joseph said to his brothers, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Come near to me, please.\u8221\'94 And they came near. And he said, \u8220\'93I am your brother, Joseph, whom you sold into Egypt. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 5\~}{\f0\fs24 And now do not be distressed or angry with yourselves because you sold me here, for God sent me before you to preserve life. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 6\~}{\f0\fs24 For the famine has been in the land these two years, and there are yet five years in which there will be neither plowing nor harvest. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 7\~}{\f0\fs24 And God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant on earth, and to keep alive for you many survivors. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 8\~}{\f0\fs24 So it was not you who sent me here, but God. He has made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house and ruler over all the land of Egypt. }
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\super
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 9\~}{\f0\fs24 Hurry and go up to my father and say to him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Thus says your son Joseph, God has made me lord of all Egypt. Come down to me; do not tarry. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 10\~}{\f0\fs24 You shall dwell in the land of Goshen, and you shall be near me, you and your children and your children\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s children, and your flocks, your herds, and all that you have. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 11\~}{\f0\fs24 There I will provide for you, for there are yet five years of famine to come, so that you and your household, and all that you have, do not come to poverty.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 12\~}{\f0\fs24 And now your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin see, that it is my mouth that speaks to you. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 13\~}{\f0\fs24 You must tell my father of all my honor in Egypt, and of all that you have seen. Hurry and bring my father down here.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 14\~}{\f0\fs24 Then he fell upon his brother Benjamin\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s neck and wept, and Benjamin wept upon his neck. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 15\~}{\f0\fs24 And he kissed all his brothers and wept upon them. After that his brothers talked with him. }
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1\super
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 16\~}{\f0\fs24 When the report was heard in Pharaoh\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s house, \u8220\'93Joseph\u8217\'92s brothers have come,\u8221\'94 it pleased Pharaoh and his servants. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 17\~}{\f0\fs24 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Say to your brothers, \u8216\'91Do this: load your beasts and go back to the land of Canaan, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 18\~}{\f0\fs24 and take your father and your households, and come to me, and I will give you the best of the land of Egypt, and you shall eat the fat of the land.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 19\~}{\f0\fs24 And you, Joseph, are commanded to say, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Do this: take wagons from the land of Egypt for your little ones and for your wives, and bring your father, and come. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 20\~}{\f0\fs24 Have no concern for your goods, for the best of all the land of Egypt is yours.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92\~\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 21\~}{\f0\fs24 The sons of Israel did so: and Joseph gave them wagons, according to the command of Pharaoh, and gave them provisions for the journey. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 22\~}{\f0\fs24 To each and all of them he gave a change of clothes, but to Benjamin he gave three hundred shekels of silver and five changes of clothes. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 23\~}{\f0\fs24 To his father he sent as follows: ten donkeys loaded with the good things of Egypt, and ten female donkeys loaded with grain, bread, and provision for his father on the journey. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 24\~}{\f0\fs24 Then he sent his brothers away, and as they departed, he said to them, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Do not quarrel on the way.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24  }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 25\~}{\f0\fs24 So they went up out of Egypt and came to the land of Canaan to their father Jacob. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 26\~}{\f0\fs24 And they told him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Joseph is still alive, and he is ruler over all the land of Egypt.\u8221\'94 And his heart became numb, for he did not believe them. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 27\~}{\f0\fs24 But when they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said to them, and when he saw the wagons that Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of their father Jacob revived. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 28\~}{\f0\fs24 And Israel said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93It is enough; Joseph my son is still alive. I will go and see him before I die.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv;ref=BibleESV.Ge45.1;off=489"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ge 45:1\endash 28). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}