{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs36\b1 46\~}{\f0\fs24 So Israel took his journey with all that he had and came to Beersheba, and offered sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 2\~}{\f0\fs24 And God spoke to Israel in visions of the night and said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Jacob, Jacob.\u8221\'94 And he said, \u8220\'93Here I am.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 3\~}{\f0\fs24 Then he said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I am God, the God of your father. Do not be afraid to go down to Egypt, for there I will make you into a great nation. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 4\~}{\f0\fs24 I myself will go down with you to Egypt, and I will also bring you up again, and Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s hand shall close your eyes.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 5\~}{\f0\fs24 Then Jacob set out from Beersheba. The sons of Israel carried Jacob their father, their little ones, and their wives, in the wagons that Pharaoh had sent to carry him. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 6\~}{\f0\fs24 They also took their livestock and their goods, which they had gained in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob and all his offspring with him, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 7\~}{\f0\fs24 his sons, and his sons\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 sons with him, his daughters, and his sons\u8217\'92 daughters. All his offspring he brought with him into Egypt. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 8\~}{\f0\fs24 Now these are the names of the descendants of Israel, who came into Egypt, Jacob and his sons. Reuben, Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s firstborn, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 9\~}{\f0\fs24 and the sons of Reuben: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 10\~}{\f0\fs24 The sons of Simeon: Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a Canaanite woman. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 11\~}{\f0\fs24 The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 12\~}{\f0\fs24 The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, Shelah, Perez, and Zerah (but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan); and the sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 13\~}{\f0\fs24 The sons of Issachar: Tola, Puvah, Yob, and Shimron. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 14\~}{\f0\fs24 The sons of Zebulun: Sered, Elon, and Jahleel. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 15\~}{\f0\fs24 These are the sons of Leah, whom she bore to Jacob in Paddan-aram, together with his daughter Dinah; altogether his sons and his daughters numbered thirty-three.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24  }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 16\~}{\f0\fs24 The sons of Gad: Ziphion, Haggi, Shuni, Ezbon, Eri, Arodi, and Areli. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 17\~}{\f0\fs24 The sons of Asher: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, Beriah, with Serah their sister. And the sons of Beriah: Heber and Malchiel. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 18\~}{\f0\fs24 These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter; and these she bore to Jacob\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 sixteen persons. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 19\~}{\f0\fs24 The sons of Rachel, Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s wife: Joseph and Benjamin. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 20\~}{\f0\fs24 And to Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and Ephraim, whom Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera the priest of On, bore to him. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 21\~}{\f0\fs24 And the sons of Benjamin: Bela, Becher, Ashbel, Gera, Naaman, Ehi, Rosh, Muppim, Huppim, and Ard. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 22\~}{\f0\fs24 These are the sons of Rachel, who were born to Jacob\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 fourteen persons in all. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 23\~}{\f0\fs24 The son of Dan: Hushim. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 24\~}{\f0\fs24 The sons of Naphtali: Jahzeel, Guni, Jezer, and Shillem. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 25\~}{\f0\fs24 These are the sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave to Rachel his daughter, and these she bore to Jacob\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 seven persons in all. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 26\~}{\f0\fs24 All the persons belonging to Jacob who came into Egypt, who were his own descendants, not including Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sons\u8217\'92 wives, were sixty-six persons in all. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 27\~}{\f0\fs24 And the sons of Joseph, who were born to him in Egypt, were two. All the persons of the house of Jacob who came into Egypt were seventy. }
\par\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 Jacob and Joseph Reunited}
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 28\~}{\f0\fs24 He had sent Judah ahead of him to Joseph to show the way before him in Goshen, and they came into the land of Goshen. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 29\~}{\f0\fs24 Then Joseph prepared his chariot and went up to meet Israel his father in Goshen. He presented himself to him and fell on his neck and wept on his neck a good while. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 30\~}{\f0\fs24 Israel said to Joseph, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Now let me die, since I have seen your face and know that you are still alive.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 31\~}{\f0\fs24 Joseph said to his brothers and to his father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s household, \u8220\'93I will go up and tell Pharaoh and will say to him, \u8216\'91My brothers and my father\u8217\'92s household, who were in the land of Canaan, have come to me. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 32\~}{\f0\fs24 And the men are shepherds, for they have been keepers of livestock, and they have brought their flocks and their herds and all that they have.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 33\~}{\f0\fs24 When Pharaoh calls you and says, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91What is your occupation?\u8217\'92 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 34\~}{\f0\fs24 you shall say, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Your servants have been keepers of livestock from our youth even until now, both we and our fathers,\u8217\'92 in order that you may dwell in the land of Goshen, for every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians.\u8221\'94 \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv;ref=BibleESV.Ge46.1;off=34;ctx=His_Family_to_Egypt$0A~46$C2$A0So_Israel_took_hi"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ge 46:1\endash 34). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}