{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1 }{\f0\fs24\i1 Get everybody away from me.}{\f0\fs24  Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s order, found in the middle of the verse, might explain the best translation of }{\f0\fs24\i1 l}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 hi\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7791\'3F\u702\'3Fapp\u275\'65q}{\f0\fs24  in the first part of the verse. As I have mentioned, the verb appears in the same stem in 43:31, where it clearly means \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93control oneself, restrain one\u8217\'92s feelings.\u8221\'94 If, however, one translates it similarly in 45:1 (i.e., \u8220\'93Joseph was no longer able to control himself in the presence of all his attendants\u8221\'94), it sounds as if his attendants are preventing his self-control, when in fact they are preventing his emotional self-revelation to his brothers. Accordingly he orders them to leave before making that self-disclosure. Thus I have translated, following Gordis, \u8220\'93Joseph could not give vent to his emotions,\u8221\'94 i.e., he wants to express his emotions rather than control them.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge45.1;off=650;ctx=_fraternal_bond.$E2$80$9D23$0A~Get_everybody_away_f"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 573). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 2}{\f0\fs24   For a third time the Genesis narrative records Joseph weeping. The previous occasions are 42:24 and 43:30. The first two are hidden weepings. He left so he could weep without being observed. Here he orders everybody else to leave so that his uncontrollable sobbing will not become a public spectacle. Everybody near can hear, but they cannot observe. Both his Egyptian servants and Pharaoh\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s house hear the weeping. That the occupants of Pharaoh\u8217\'92s house could also hear Joseph\u8217\'92s weeping indicates that Joseph\u8217\'92s house (44:14) and the king\u8217\'92s house were close to each other. Is something wrong? Has there been an accident?}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge45.2;off=0;ctx=_than_control_them.$0A~2__For_a_third_time_"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 573\endash 574). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 4 }{\f0\fs24 In Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s first self-disclosure he said simply: \u8220\'93I am Joseph.\u8221\'94 Here he repeats that, but adds the condemning clause, }{\f0\fs24\i1 your brother, whom you sold into Egypt.}{\f0\fs24  Nobody but Joseph and his brothers would be aware of this telltale bit of family history. Is Joseph still speaking through an interpreter (none is mentioned), or does he slip into his native tongue? With nobody else around, and in such an emotional, fragile moment, this conversation would no doubt be in Hebrew.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge45.4;off=977;ctx=gical_situation.$E2$80$9D27$0A~In_Joseph$E2$80$99s_first_se"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 575). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 5 }{\f0\fs24 He explains to them that God had, in fact, sent him ahead of them }{\f0\fs24\i1 for life preservation.}{\f0\fs24  The Hebrew word for this last phrase in }{\f0\fs24\i1 mi\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7717\'3Fy\u225\'E1}{\f0\fs24 , literally, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93place of life.\u8221\'94 It appears in Judg. 6:4 and 17:10 with the meaning \u8220\'93means of livelihood\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93sustenance.\u8221\'94 Closest to our verse is 2 Chr. 14:12. It is possible, but not necessary, to repoint }{\f0\fs24\i1 mi\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7717\'3Fy\u225\'E1}{\f0\fs24  to }{\f0\fs24\i1 m}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7717\'3Fayyeh}{\f0\fs24 , a Piel participle meaning \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93a preserver of life\u8221\'94 (see 1 Sam. 2:6; Neh. 9:6).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The concepts expressed in v. 5 are not those of the narrator, but of Joseph. This is Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s reasoned statement on the purpose of his experiences thus far. We are not told precisely at what point it dawned upon Joseph that he was a lifesaver sent by God at the most propitious moment, rather than a victim of barbaric men and brutal circumstances. Nothing thus far in the narrative has prepared us for this eloquent and magnificent theologizing on his pilgrimage. We must assume that Joseph perceived bit by bit the hand of God in this nightmare. It is doubtful, as I said before, that he embraced this conviction as a seventeen-year-old on his way to Egypt.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge45.5;off=352;ctx=elf-flagellation.28$0A~He_explains_to_them_"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 575). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 7}{\f0\fs24   Joseph repeats in v. 7a what he had said in v. 5b, }{\f0\fs24\i1 God sent me ahead of you.}{\f0\fs24  Then he proceeds to elaborate on his \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93for life preservation\u8221\'94 of v. 5 with }{\f0\fs24\i1 to ensure for you a remnant}{\f0\fs24  [}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u353\'9A}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u702\'3F\u275\'65r\u238\'EE\u7791\'3F}{\f0\fs24 ] }{\f0\fs24\i1 on earth and to keep alive for you many survivors}{\f0\fs24  [}{\f0\fs24\i1 p}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 l\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u275\'65\u7789\'3F\u225\'E1}{\f0\fs24 ]. It becomes clear here that the lives Joseph will save are the lives of his own flesh and blood. The two Hebrew words here translated }{\f0\fs24\i1 remnant}{\f0\fs24  and }{\f0\fs24\i1 survivors}{\f0\fs24  occur elsewhere in the OT in combination (see 2 K. 19:31 par. Isa. 37:32; 1 Chr. 4:43; Ezra 9:14). Others in Canaan may perish because of the famine, but the family of Jacob will not be among them. Unlike the earlier patriarchal stories in which the greatest threat to the promises of God was the bearers of those promises, here it is a famine that looms as the enemy. May a natural catastrophe do to the promises of God what a lying Abraham and a conniving Jacob could not do\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 thwart them? The answer is decidedly negative. In using terms like }{\f0\fs24\i1 remnant}{\f0\fs24  and }{\f0\fs24\i1 survivors,}{\f0\fs24  Joseph is employing words that elsewhere in the OT are freighted with theological significance. It may well be that in the deliverance of his brothers and his father Joseph perceives that far more is at stake than the mere physical survival of twelve human beings. What really survives is the plan of redemption announced first to his great grandfather. At least the reader is cognizant of that fact.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge45.7;off=0;ctx=ir_time_and_energy.$0A~7__Joseph_repeats_in"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 576). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 8}{\f0\fs24   For a third time Joseph employs the verb }{\f0\fs24\i1 sent,}{\f0\fs24  here emphasizing that the subject is }{\f0\fs24\i1 not you \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85 but God.}{\f0\fs24  It is interesting that Joseph leaves to last the positions of eminence he has had bestowed on him. He begins not with how important he is, the success he has achieved, or the honors that have come his way. This is no selfish display for Joseph. Instead, he begins by divulging to his brothers why, in his analysis, he was in Egypt in the first place. Joseph talks more about God than about Joseph.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge45.8;off=0;ctx=uture_existence.$E2$80$9D33$0A~8__For_a_third_time_"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 577). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\i1 father to Pharaoh.}{\f0\fs24  This could be the equivalent of the Egyptian title \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93God\u8217\'92s Father,\u8221\'94 in which \u8220\'93God\u8221\'94 is the Pharaoh, the living king. The title may or may not be used to indicate family relationship. When used by nonrelated individuals especially, it designated one who stood in the relation of \u8220\'93father\u8221\'94 to the king by virtue of, say, his outstanding wisdom and ability. That is, Joseph was a father figure to Pharaoh.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge45.8;off=588;ctx=_most_intriguing_is_~father_to_Pharaoh._T"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 577). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 9-11 }{\f0\fs24 Joseph is careful to begin his message to his father by placing proper and initial emphasis on }{\f0\fs24\i1 God.}{\f0\fs24  It is God who is responsible for both Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s preservation and elevation. Joseph mentioned no less than three titles, now applied to himself, when talking to his brothers (v. 8). He is less specific about his position when relaying a message to Jacob. He is now simply }{\f0\fs24\i1 master over all of Egypt.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge45.9-11;off=430;ctx=tivation_(v._11).11$0A~Joseph_is_careful_to"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 580). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\i1 the territory of Goshen.}{\f0\fs24  This place name has not yet been found in an Egyptian text. Since there was a town in Canaan called Goshen (Josh. 15:51), and another \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93land of Goshen\u8221\'94 south of Judah (Josh. 10:41; 11:16), it is likely that }{\f0\fs24\i1 Goshen}{\f0\fs24  is a Semitic name and not Egyptian. }{\f0\fs24\i1 Goshen}{\f0\fs24  is a district on the eastern edge of the Delta, which is known in ancient records as Wadi Tumilat. That it was a district favorable to herdsmen of the Sinai is made clear in a letter sent by one of Merneptah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s officials in that area back to the Pharaoh. According to the letter, the Egyptians had \u8220\'93finished letting the Bedouin tribes of Edom (the Shasu) pass the Fortress of Mer-ne-Ptah \u8230\'85 which is in Tjeku (\u7790\'3Feku), to the pools of Per-Atum (Pithom) \u8230\'85 which are in Tjeku (\u7790\'3Feku), to keep them alive and to keep their cattle alive.\u8221\'94}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge45.9-11;off=1164;ctx=ls_are_to_settle_in_~the_territory_of_Gos"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 580). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 14-15 }{\f0\fs24 The announcement by the narrator that his brothers talked with and to Joseph (}{\f0\fs24\i1 k\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u275\'65n dibb}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 r\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u251\'FB \u702\'3Fe\u7717\'3F\u257\'61yw \u702\'3Fitt\u244\'F4}{\f0\fs24 ) is a signal that the breach between the brothers, which has long existed since 37:4 (\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93they could not speak to him peaceably,\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\i1 w}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 l\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u333\'6F\u702\'3F y\u257\'61\u7733\'3F}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 l\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u251\'FB dabb}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 r\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u244\'F4 l}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u353\'9A\u257\'61l\u333\'6Fm}{\f0\fs24 ), is now in the process of closing. The resurfacing of dialogue between Joseph and his brothers spells the end of alienation.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge45.14-15;off=609;ctx=ears_of_separation._~The_announcement_by_"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 581\endash 582). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 16-20 }{\f0\fs24 If anything, Pharaoh\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s invitation is more generous than Joseph\u8217\'92s. Joseph focused on the male members of his family: \u8220\'93you, your sons, your grandsons.\u8221\'94 Pharaoh explicitly mentions everybody, including }{\f0\fs24\i1 little ones}{\f0\fs24  and }{\f0\fs24\i1 wives.}{\f0\fs24  Joseph designated the invitation as an invitation to settle in Goshen. Pharaoh appears to open the door even wider with phrases like }{\f0\fs24\i1 the very best in Egypt, the fat of the land, the best in the land of Egypt.}{\f0\fs24  These may be general descriptions of Goshen, but it is likely that they range beyond that one region. Finally, Pharaoh offers }{\f0\fs24\i1 wagons}{\f0\fs24  so that the aged Jacob, the young children, and the women will not have to make the trip on foot.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge45.16-20;off=2701;ctx=Hebrew_name_Joseph.$0A~If_anything,_Pharaoh"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 584). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 21-28 }{\f0\fs24 The sons\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 lengthy conversation with Jacob about Joseph (v. 27a) and the sighting of the wagons (v. 27b) provide prima facie evidence for Jacob that Joseph was indeed alive. No longer did he need to pinch himself to see if he was dreaming (v. 27c). The sons might have been making up the story about Joseph, but the }{\f0\fs24\i1 wagons}{\f0\fs24  supply irrefutable confirmation of the authenticity of their story, more so than the clothing or the three hundred shekels.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge45.21-28;off=3300;ctx=uncontrollable_joy.$0A~The_sons$E2$80$99_lengthy_co"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 587). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 It is fitting that Jacob be styled as }{\f0\fs24\i1 Israel}{\f0\fs24  in the last verse (usually interpreted as a sure evidence of J). Israel is Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s new name, a name that speaks of a new destiny and a new future. Here is Israel with a new hope and a new expectation. Joseph is alive. Israel will meet him shortly. Here is Israel in v. 28 making the decision as the head of the family to go to Egypt to see Joseph.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge45.21-28;off=4139;ctx=t_seen_for_so_long.$0A~It_is_fitting_that_J"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 587). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0}