{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 1. Then Joseph.}{\f0\fs24  Judah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s speech proves beyond doubt that the formerly hateful, selfish brothers are now motivated by love for one another and have integrity within themselves and with one another.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge45.1;off=0;ctx=_of_Peace_(45:1$E2$80$9315)$0A~1._Then_Joseph._Juda"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 562). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 Have everyone leave my presence!}{\f0\fs24  No outsider can share in this intensely intimate moment of reconciliation between the brothers. Heretofore he talked privately with his Egyptian steward (44:1\endash 15); now he talks privately with his brothers. In doing this, Joseph affiliates himself with the struggling covenant family, not with the riches of Egypt (Heb. 11:22).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge45.1;off=728;ctx=_authentic_passion.$0A~Have_everyone_leave_"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 562). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 3 }{\f0\fs24\b1 not able to answer him.}{\f0\fs24  The family is moving close to true intimacy, but as long as they live in fear of the one they wronged and until they allow themselves to be embraced by forgiveness, they do not talk intimately to one another.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 terrified.}{\f0\fs24  This is a term used of paralyzing fear as felt by those involved in war (Ex. 15:15; Judg. 20:41; 1 Sam. 28:21; Ps. 48:5). Their lives are clearly in the hands of the one they thought they killed.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge45.3;off=407;ctx=nity_of_the_family.$0A~not_able_to_answer_h"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 563). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 4 }{\f0\fs24\b1 the one you sold into Egypt.}{\f0\fs24  No rebuke is intended. He needs to prove his identity (cf. 45:12); only Joseph knows their secret. Moreover, with their secret out, they can be freed from suppressed guilt.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 5. Do not be angry with yourselves.}{\f0\fs24  Joseph directs their gaze away from their sins to God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s grace (see 50:19; Num. 21:8\endash 9).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 to save lives.}{\f0\fs24  Here Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s reference is general, likely including the lives of the Egyptians and others. In 45:7 he speaks more specifically (\u8220\'93your lives\u8221\'94) of the covenant family.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 God sent me.}{\f0\fs24  This statement, repeated three times, is the theological heart of the account of Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s line (see 50:19\endash 21; Acts 7:9\endash 10). God directs the maze of human guilt to achieve his good and set purposes (Acts 2:23; 4:28). Such faith establishes the redemptive kingdom of God.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge45.4;off=176;ctx=er_has_been_broken.$0A~the_one_you_sold_int"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 563). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 7. remnant.}{\f0\fs24  The term denotes descendants who survive a great catastrophe. Here the incomplete metaphor signifies that the embryonic nation (see 46:8\endash 27) \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93in narrowly escaping destruction is like a remnant which is the bearer of hopes for the future existence.\u8221\'94}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge45.7;off=0;ctx=ps_(cf._Ex._34:21).$0A~7._remnant._The_term"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 563). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 8. it was not you.}{\f0\fs24  Joseph alleviates the guilt and shame of his converted brothers by placing their crime against the broader picture of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sovereignty. Since sin is part of his eternal counsel and foreknowledge\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 though human beings are still accountable\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 there is no basis for retaliation or bitterness. If they had not repented and renounced their sin, God at some time and in some way would have judged their guilt (see 44:16).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge45.8;off=0;ctx=lective_pilgrimage.$0A~8._it_was_not_you._J"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 564). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 9 }{\f0\fs24\b1 God.}{\f0\fs24  He opens his speech to his father pointing to God. This is the key to all of their narratives.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 God has made me lord of all Egypt.}{\f0\fs24  God made the impossible possible (see 45:26).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 10. Goshen.}{\f0\fs24  The precise location remains problematic. Ward argues, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The basic requirement for Jacob and his family was pasturage for their herds (Gen. 46:32\endash 34; 47:6, 11). The general region of the E Delta fits this admirably.\u8221\'94 Goshen was probably located in the specific region of modern F\u226\'E2q\u251\'FBs, Saft el-Hinna and Tell ed-Dab\u703\'3Fa/Qant\u238\'EEr.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge45.9;off=126;ctx=f_a_janus_to_Act_3.$0A~God._He_opens_his_sp"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 564). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 15 }{\f0\fs24\b1 his brothers talked with him.}{\f0\fs24  This is the narrator\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s signal that the rift has been bridged (see 37:4); intimacy has been achieved. The narrator, however, blanks the conversation as inconsequential to the reconciliation. Intimacy is visceral, not cerebral.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge45.15;off=155;ctx=ir_stunned_silence.$0A~his_brothers_talked_"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 564). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 16. the news reached Pharaoh\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s palace.}{\f0\fs24  The text literally says, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the voice was heard in Pharaoh\u8217\'92s palace,\u8221\'94 which links this verse back to 45:2 (see Literary Analysis above). Pharaoh has learned of the brothers\u8217\'92 arrival, not of their conversation with Joseph. Joseph\u8217\'92s attendants, barred from the brothers\u8217\'92 conversation, hear only his loud weeping, not his words (see Literary Analysis above).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 were pleased.}{\f0\fs24  Literally, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93it was good in the eyes of.\u8230\'85\u8221\'94 Pharaoh and his courtiers favor Joseph\u8217\'92s family because they look upon Joseph with favor (contra Ex. 1:8). Pharaoh\u8217\'92s offer of the best of the land in Egypt to Joseph\u8217\'92s family is a proper response of gratitude to the man who saves Egypt and secures all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh (Gen. 47:20).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge45.16;off=0;ctx=d_Joseph_(45:16$E2$80$9324)$0A~16._the_news_reached"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 571). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 18 }{\f0\fs24\b1 the fat of the land.}{\f0\fs24  This is the best land for agriculture (cf. Isa. 1:19) as can be inferred by Israel\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s later references to it (cf. Num. 20:5; Ps. 78:47). Pharaoh does not specify the pasturelands of Goshen, as Joseph had. In 46:31\endash 32 Pharaoh seems unaware that Joseph\u8217\'92s family are shepherds in need specifically of pastureland.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge45.18;off=40;ctx=w_word_means_$E2$80$9Ceat.$E2$80$9D$0A~the_fat_of_the_land."}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 571\endash 572). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 22. new clothing.}{\f0\fs24  Clothing is an important symbol in the Joseph story (cf. 37:3, 31\endash 33; 38:14, 19; 39:12\endash 18; 41:14, 42). Here it functions as a fitting token of Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s affection and esteem for his brothers (cf. 2 Kings 5:5, 22), for it stands in striking contrast to their stripping his robe off him (see 37:23). Sarna says, \u8220\'93Since an article of apparel had featured prominently in the tale of hostility between Joseph and his brothers, it is only fitting that their reconciliation should be marked by a gift of apparel.\u8221\'94 The change also symbolizes their new situation (cf. 38:14; 41:14, 42): delivered from guilt, hostility, and famine, with the prospect of abundant provisions in the best of Egypt.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 to Benjamin he gave three hundred shekels of silver and five sets of clothes.}{\f0\fs24  As sovereign, Joseph has the freedom to brush primogeniture rights aside and give a special status to the youngest. Moreover, he has no need to explain his action. The brothers have learned the lesson of sovereign grace and are now above petty jealousy. Even after Joseph gave Benjamin five times as much food (43:34), they were still willing to be enslaved for him (44:13).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 silver.}{\f0\fs24  This is another key symbol in Book 10. Here the silver is given to bless a brother, not to sell him (contra 37:28)}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge45.22;off=0;ctx=_mouth_of_Pharaoh.$E2$80$9D$0A~22._new_clothing._Cl"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 572). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 24. Don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t quarrel.}{\f0\fs24  See 42:22. The text literally says, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Don\u8217\'92t get excited.\u8221\'94 The brothers are not to make recriminations against one another regarding their crime, especially in explaining it to their father. If Joseph forgives them, how much more should they forgive one another (see Matt. 18:21\endash 35).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge45.24;off=0;ctx=_brothers$E2$80$99_donkeys.$0A~24._Don$E2$80$99t_quarrel._S"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 572). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Theological reflections}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qc\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b1 Providence and the Spiritual Life}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 G. von Rad comments, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Here in the scene of recognition the narrator indicates clearly for the first time what is of paramount importance to him in the entire Joseph story: God\u8217\'92s hand which directs all the confusion of human guilt ultimately [leads] toward a gracious goal.\u8221\'94 Four times Joseph describes himself as God\u8217\'92s agent (45:5, 7\endash 8, 9; cf. 42:25; 43:23). Wenham says, \u8220\'93All the episodes in the Joseph story contribute to demonstrating how God\u8217\'92s purposes are ultimately fulfilled through and in spite of human deeds, whether or not those deeds are morally right.\u8221\'94 God in sovereign grace has guided Israel\u8217\'92s history (42:2; 45:5\endash 8; 50:20).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 However, Joseph theologizes on the spiritual implications of that doctrine in a unique way. This truth enables him to reinterpret his narrative. From a worm\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s-eye view, his narrative reads like a nightmare, a cacophony of outrageous excesses unjustly inflicted upon him. A rational conclusion that it is all absurd from this perspective could have made him an existentialist, a cynic, or a nihilist. But he chooses the heavenly perspective that God is working through him to bring about what is good (Rom. 8:28 [}{\f0\fs24\scaps niv}{\f0\fs24  note]; cf. Prov. 16:1\endash 4; 19:21; 20:24; 27:1). This enables him to forgive and encourage his brothers to do the same. Sin must be seen within the context of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s set and eternal purpose. The believer can count on God to bring to pass his good pleasure regardless of what people intend.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge45.15"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 564\endash 565). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b1 Repentance}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The brothers\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 sin against Joseph weighed upon them. Solomon declares mercy to whoever confesses and renounces sin (Prov. 28:13). \u8220\'93Confession\u8221\'94 means to give God glory by acknowledging sin and God\u8217\'92s right to punish it. The brothers, as represented by Judah, meet both conditions. They confess their corporate guilt in 44:16 (see also 42:21), giving God glory. Judah\u8217\'92s plea for Benjamin shows how sincerely they renounce their former sin (44:33\endash 34). Wenham asserts, \u8220\'93No more moving example of true contrition and repentance is to be found in Scripture, unless it be the parable of the prodigal son (Luke 15).\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 It is to Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s great credit that he recreates the therapeutic situation that enables his brothers to prove their conversion to him and themselves. Fox comments: \u8220\'93Some have questioned the morality of Yosef\u8217\'92s actions, seeing that the aged Yaakov might well have died while the test was progressing, without ever finding out that Yosef had survived. But that is not the point of the story. What it is trying to teach (among other things) is a lesson about crime and repentance. Only by recreating something of the original situation\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the brothers are again in control of the life and death of a son of Rachel\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 can Yosef be sure that they have changed. Once the brothers pass the test, life and covenant can then continue.\u8221\'94}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge45.15;off=2541"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 566). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b1 Typology}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Both Joseph and Judah prefigure Jesus Christ. With regard to Joseph, the father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s favorite son is sent to his brothers. They sell their guiltless brother for twenty pieces of silver, and he becomes their lord. The Joseph story also provides a remarkable parallel of Christ\u8217\'92s death\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 God decides beforehand that through wicked hands he will nail Christ to the cross and so save the world (see Acts 2:23; 4:28).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Judah, on the other hand, is the first person in Scripture who willingly offers his own life for another. His self-sacrificing love for his brother for the sake of his father prefigures the vicarious atonement of Christ, who by his voluntary sufferings heals the breach between God and human beings. Joseph gets the double portion, but Judah gets eternal kingship.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge45.15;off=5770"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 567). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24}