{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1.\tab Joseph faced his brothers, those who had hurt him (vv. 1\endash 3).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 They had not seen nor known anything about him for about twenty-three years, not since they had treated him so harshly, not since they had threatened to kill him and had ended up selling him into slavery. Now here he was, standing face to face with them as the supreme ruler of Egypt, second only to Pharaoh himself. He held the power of life and death over them, and in their dealings with him as the governor of Egypt, they had received only harsh treatment. Fear, fright, terror, and utter confusion surged through their bodies. No wonder they backed up from his presence.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b1
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . We must face those who hurt us, even those who do terrible wrong against us. God wants us living in peace with everyone. Therefore, we must always seek reconciliation. Reconciliation may not always be possible, but as much as is possible, we must try to make peace with all those who wrong us. The first step to reconciliation, to making peace, is to face those who have hurt us and done wrong against us.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2;ref=Bible.Ge45.1-3;off=2079;ctx=hrough_their_minds.$0A~They_had_not_seen_no"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 362). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 2.\tab Joseph forgave his brothers (vv. 4\endash 8).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 b. Note how Joseph confessed their guilt for them: how he got their terrible wrong against him out of the way (v. 4}{\f0\fs24\super b}{\f0\fs24 ). As soon as they moved closer to him, Joseph again identified himself. But this time he called himself Joseph, }{\f0\fs24\i1 their brother}{\f0\fs24 , the one they had sold into Egypt.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He was stressing their relationship: they were brothers. This would help ease whatever fears they had.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He was helping them confess the wrong they had done by bringing up the subject himself. He wanted to get the painful experience out of the way so they could move on to being reconciled. As soon as he mentioned this fact, note how he immediately moved to the subject of forgiveness.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 c. Joseph assured his brothers of his forgiveness (v. 5). He told them not to be distressed, not to fear nor to be angry with themselves over their harsh treatment of him. When we are caught in some wrong \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab there is a tendency to blame ourselves, to think how foolish and stupid we have been; to degrade, belittle, and run ourselves down; to think we are no good, contemptible, disgraceful, vile, wretched, good for nothing}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab there is also a tendency to blame others}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Joseph was declaring that he had forgiven his brothers: they were not to fear any retaliation from him. Neither were they to be angry at themselves nor among themselves. They were not to blame nor accuse each other. The whole issue was to be put in the past, forgotten. He had forgiven them, forgiven completely and fully.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 d. But that was not all: Joseph had also learned a great lesson through all the terrible circumstances. God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s hand had been at work through all the wrong the brothers had done to him (v. 5}{\f0\fs24\super b}{\f0\fs24 ). God had actually taken the terrible circumstances and worked them out for good (see Ro. 8:28).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2;ref=Bible.Ge45.4-8;off=761;ctx=hem_to_come_nearer.$0A~b._Note_how_Joseph_c"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 362). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 3.\tab Joseph showed concern for his entire family and household (vv. 9\endash 13).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Those who do evil against us are sometimes our own family members. At other times, evil-doers are our neighbors, friends, classmates, fellow workers, or strangers. Evil-doers, those who hurt and mistreat us, often cross our paths. We must seek peace, seek to be reconciled with them, as much as is possible. One of the best ways to reveal our desire for peace is to show concern for them. Seeing our care and concern for them will help to soften and reconcile them to us.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2;ref=Bible.Ge45.9-13;off=1940;ctx=ir_father_to_Egypt.$0A~Thought_1._Those_who"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 363). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 4.\tab Joseph showed affection for his brothers (vv. 14\endash 15).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 5.\tab Joseph bore a strong testimony by being reconciled with his brothers (vv. 16\endash 20).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 b. The news stirred Pharaoh to help Joseph and his family (v. 17).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1)\tab Pharaoh ordered Joseph to bring his family down to Egypt. Joseph was to give his brothers whatever supplies they needed and send them to bring his father and family to Pharaoh himself (vv. 17\endash 18}{\f0\fs24\super a}{\f0\fs24 ).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2)\tab Note that Pharaoh promised to abundantly provide for the family, to give them the very best of the land of Egypt (v. 18).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 3)\tab Pharaoh then ordered Joseph to take wagons to transport the family to Egypt (v. 19). This would make the trip much easier for them. This is the first mention of wagons or carts in the Bible. Pharaoh also instructed the family not to worry about bringing their household furnishings: he would see to it that they received all they needed\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 even the very best\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 when they arrived in Egypt (v. 20).}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Separation, strife, and division hurt. They hurt not only the people who are involved, but other people as well. We always hurt other people when we are at odds with someone, especially family members.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 But the opposite is also true. When we are reconciled\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 when we make peace\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 others rejoice with us. Being reconciled always bears a strong testimony to others. Reconciliation brings joy not only to those who were at odds, but to all those who were disturbed by the division. The news of reconciliation is welcome news to most people.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2;ref=Bible.Ge45.16-20;off=842;ctx=raoh_was_to_Joseph.$0A~b._The_news_stirred_"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 364). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 6.\tab Joseph met his family\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s needs (vv. 21\endash 23).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Reconciliation always needs to be followed up and strengthened. We can do this by doing what Joseph did: by meeting the needs of the person who was at odds with us. Note also that Joseph gave special gifts to his brothers. Gifts will also help strengthen a reunion and reconciliation. The joy and peace that flows from a reconciled heart should stir us to reach out to help those who were at odds with us, to meet their needs and to share gifts with them.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2;ref=Bible.Ge45.21-23;off=673;ctx=provisions_(v._23).$0A~Thought_1._Reconcili"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 365). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 7.\tab Joseph exhorted his brothers not to argue, not to blame one another for the past (v. 24).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Once the brothers left Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s presence, there was the possibility they might begin to accuse and blame one another for the evil done him. Human nature usually wants to blame the other person more. Joseph knew this; therefore he warned his brothers to guard against it.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Reconciliation never wipes out all the problems nor does it guarantee perfect peace in the future. When problems arise, too often we bring up the past and we begin to blame the other person for what happened.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2;ref=Bible.Ge45.24;off=111;ctx=other_for_the_past._~Once_the_brothers_le"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 365). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 8.\tab The results of the reconciliation: the heart of the godly father was revived and the family was reunited (vv. 25\endash 28).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2;ref=Bible.Ge45.1-28;off=8675;ctx=with_Them,_45:1$E2$80$9328.$0A~1._Joseph_faced_his_"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 361). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Now note what happened to Jacob. His spirit revived; he experienced a renewal of heart. Remember, he was elderly, well over a hundred years old, and he had been deeply concerned for his sons. When they had left him to go to Egypt, they were going to face the capital charge of being spies. In addition, they were facing the possible charge of being thieves. Both charges were false; nevertheless, they had to stand trial to prove their innocence. And the outlook was bleak, for the Egyptian ruler had been hard and harsh in the treatment of his sons. Moreover, Jacob was just like all the other ranchers throughout Canaan, about to lose his livestock and wealth to the ravages of the famine. Jacob had been facing terrible trial, horrible circumstances, circumstances that were life-threatening. He had no doubt done what any of us would have done: searched his heart to see if he had failed God, to see if he were suffering because of some failure, to see if perhaps God were chastising him for some unknown reason.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 But now, Jacob knew the truth. He heard the glorious news that Joseph was alive; his beloved son who had been missing for about twenty-three years was alive. And he could see the proof; the wagons to take him to Joseph were sitting there in front of him. His spirit was revived; his heart was renewed. He felt like a new man.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 b. Therefore, the second great result of reconciliation could now take place: the family could now be reunited. Israel and his family would go to Egypt. Note the change of Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s name to }{\f0\fs24\i1 Israel}{\f0\fs24 . Why the change? Because Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s heart was revived. He knew that God was not punishing him. On the contrary, God was blessing him. His son was alive, and his family was going to be provided for through the terrible famine that had gripped the land.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 His family would be delivered; therefore they would be able to survive and fulfill God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s purpose for them. They would be able \u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab to bear the promised seed, the nation of people promised by God}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab to bear the promised seed, the very special seed of the Savior}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab to inherit the promised land of Canaan sometime out in the future}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 This great blessing and deliverance being wrought stirred Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s heart, stirred a revival and a renewed spirit within him. He was going to face the future in the spirit of his new name, }{\f0\fs24\i1 Israel}{\f0\fs24 . Remember, the name Israel means the man who struggles and prevails with God and the man in whom God struggles and prevails.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2;ref=Bible.Ge45.25-28;off=1535;ctx=his_sons_(v._27$EF$BB$BFb).$0A~Now_note_what_happen"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 366). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24}