{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1 Upon reaching Beer-sheba Jacob presents sacrifices to his Lord, designated as }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 the God of his father Isaac.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  A father on his way to see his son pauses to worship the God of his own father. It was at this same site that God appeared to Isaac and reminded him that he was the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93God of his father Abraham\u8221\'94 (26:23\endash 25). Apart from Gen. 31:54 (also in connection with Jacob and the God of his father [v. 53b]), this is the only instance of the verb }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 z\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u257\'61\u7687\'3Fa\u7717\'3F}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93offer [a sacrifice]\u8221\'94) in Genesis. Isaac built the altar (}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 mizb\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u275\'65a\u7717\'3F}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , 26:25) at Beer-sheba, and a generation later his son offered sacrifices (}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 z}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\super e}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u7687\'3F\u257\'61\u7717\'3F\u238\'EEm}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ) at that place. It is significant that Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sacrifice precedes God\u8217\'92s speech. The act of worship is thus cast as a spontaneous expression of gratitude by Jacob, rather than a response by Jacob to any promise from God.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge46.1;off=1043;ctx=$E2$80$9D_(cf._Luke_15:24).$0A~Upon_reaching_Beer-s"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 589). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 2 }{\f0\fs24 It has been some time since the narrator informed us that God appeared and spoke to Jacob. The most recent occurrence recorded in Genesis is found in 35:9ff. Many years earlier God came to Jacob at Bethel and gave him a reminder and reconfirmation of his destiny. Now years later the divine voice speaks again, and Jacob has no apparent problems deciphering it.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The whole life of Abraham, in terms of receiving divine promises, is ringed by speeches of God which focus exclusively on the promises of God to Abraham and his progeny. God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s first talk to Abraham (12:1\endash 3) and final talk to Abraham (22:15\endash 18) are God\u8217\'92s promises. Similarly, God\u8217\'92s first talk to Jacob (28:13\endash 16) and his last talk to Jacob (46:2\endash 4) are promises.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge46.2;off=1054;ctx=acob_their_father.$E2$80$9D$0A~It_has_been_some_tim"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 590). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 3\endash 4}{\f0\fs24   These two verses contain one of the four \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93do not be fearful\u8221\'94 oracles in Genesis (see 15:1; 21:17; and 26:24). This particular oracle is composed of four parts: (1) self-identification of the deity: }{\f0\fs24\i1 I am the God,}{\f0\fs24  [a general name for deity] }{\f0\fs24\i1 the God of your father}{\f0\fs24  [a specific name for deity]; (2) assurance: }{\f0\fs24\i1 Do not be fearful;}{\f0\fs24  (3) object of fear: }{\f0\fs24\i1 about going down to Egypt;}{\f0\fs24  (4) promise: }{\f0\fs24\i1 for into a great nation I will form you.\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8230\'85 Joseph\u8217\'92s hand shall close your eyes.}{\f0\fs24  Of these four parts, the last is easily the longest and most prominent.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge46.3-4;off=0;ctx=:2$E2$80$934)_are_promises.$0A~3$E2$80$934__These_two_verse"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 590). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 That Jacob is the root from which a great nation is to be formed in the relatively secluded Egyptian region of Goshen, rather than in Canaan, implies that this nation will be insulated from outside influences that may impinge on their group identity.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 It is not enough that Jacob is accompanied by his family and possessions to Egypt. God himself will be his personal escort (v. 4a). Jacob does not intuit that information; he knows it by revelation. This is the reason Jacob need not be intimidated. Egypt is not inaccessible to the God of Israel.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge46.3-4;off=3397;ctx=eographical_milieu._~That_Jacob_is_the_ro"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 591\endash 592). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 From the emphasis on the national (\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I will bring you back\u8221\'94) the verse turns to the tender }{\f0\fs24\i1 (Joseph\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s hand shall close your eyes).}{\f0\fs24  The brother who once knew what it was like to have his brothers place their hands on him in fraternal rage will place his hand upon his father in filial devotion. The announcement of his forthcoming death, placed in an amiable context, is much like that of his grandfather\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s (see 15:13\endash 16). Abraham\u8217\'92s \u8220\'93going to your fathers in peace; buried in a good old age\u8221\'94 parallels this word in 46:4c about Jacob\u8217\'92s demise and Joseph. Jacob knows all about eyes. He had a father with fading eyesight (27:1), and a wife with tender eyes (29:17). V. 4c is also part of the divine promise to Jacob. V. 4a, b emphasizes God\u8217\'92s presence with Jacob from the present occasion until the end of his life. V. 4c emphasizes Joseph\u8217\'92s presence with his father in the waning days of his father\u8217\'92s life, whenever that comes.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge46.3-4;off=4730;ctx=of_the_transitions.$0A~From_the_emphasis_on"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 592). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 6-7 }{\f0\fs24 Especially interesting in the listing by groups of the traveling party is the reference to }{\f0\fs24\i1 daughters.}{\f0\fs24  We know of only one\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Dinah. That there were daughters other than Dinah is confirmed by 34:9, 16, 21. Note also that the granddaughters of v. 7 are his sons\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 daughters, not his daughters\u8217\'92 daughters. Absent from v. 7 is any reference to Jacob\u8217\'92s wives and concubines. Rachel is dead, but what about Leah, Zilpah, and Bilhah?}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The repetition of }{\f0\fs24\i1 all his offspring}{\f0\fs24  in vv. 6 and 7 emphasizes that none of Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s offspring is excluded from the divine blessing. Jacob\u8217\'92s family has certainly had as much, if not more, fraternal friction as that of Abraham and of Isaac. Yet Jacob has no Ishmael, as Abraham had, and no Esau, as Isaac had. Jacob\u8217\'92s decidedly dysfunctional family is on the verge of coming together again in genuine community.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge46.6-7;off=330;ctx=k$CC$B1u$CC$82s$CC$8Ca$CC$84m)_as_well._~Especially_interesti"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 592\endash 593). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 8-27 }{\f0\fs24 This genealogy has six parts. First is the introduction (v. 8ab), then respectively the sons of Jacob by Leah (vv. 8c\endash 15), the sons of Jacob by Zilpah (vv. 16\endash 18), the sons of Jacob by Rachel (vv. 19\endash 22), the sons of Jacob by Bilhah (vv. 23\endash 25). The genealogy ends with a summarizing statement (vv. 26\endash 27), which gives a qualified total in v. 26 and a grand total in v. 27.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge46.8-27;off=2153;ctx=_same_verse_(v._8).$0A~This_genealogy_has_s"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 596). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Several items distinguish the section given over to Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s family through Rachel (vv. 19\endash 22). First, it is the only unit which has an introductory formula (}{\f0\fs24\i1 The sons of Rachel,}{\f0\fs24  v. 19), as well as the summarizing formula (v. 22). Second, Rachel is the mother of Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s most fruitful son\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Benjamin. Third, for every other son of Jacob the genealogy reads: \u8220\'93Reuben\u8217\'92s sons: \u8230\'85 ,\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93Simeon\u8217\'92s sons: \u8230\'85\u8221\'94 etc. For Joseph alone his family is introduced with, \u8220\'93Joseph became the father of.\u8230\'85\u8221\'94 Fourth, Joseph is the only son of Jacob whose wife is named in this genealogy: }{\f0\fs24\i1 Asenath.}{\f0\fs24  Just as the reference to Laban in vv. 18, 25 is to distant history, the reference to Asenath in v. 20 is to recent history. Fifth, of the fifty-three grandsons mentioned in the genealogy, only Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sons and those of Judah have been mentioned elsewhere in Genesis. The majority of these grandsons are but names, included in genealogies but absent from narratives. Nevertheless, God has a role for each\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 for the famous and for the otherwise unknown.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The first number given to Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s descendants is }{\f0\fs24\i1 sixty-six}{\f0\fs24  (v. 26). This group is identified as those }{\f0\fs24\i1 who migrated to Egypt}{\f0\fs24  with Jacob. Excluded from that caravan are Er and Onan, for they are already dead (v. 12; see 38:7, 10), as well as Joseph, Manasseh, and Ephraim, who are already in Egypt. Thus, eliminating those five names from the seventy listed brings the number to sixty-five, but sixty-six is obtained by the addition of Dinah.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The second number computed for Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s offspring is }{\f0\fs24\i1 seventy}{\f0\fs24  (v. 27). The increase from sixty-six in v. 26 to seventy in v. 27 is arrived at by the inclusion of Jacob himself, Joseph, and Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s two children. The LXX\u8217\'92s seventy-five}{\f0\fs24\super 35}{\f0\fs24  comes about by the deletion of Jacob and Joseph and the addition of nine sons of Joseph instead of two.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge46.8-27;off=5065;ctx=es_with_his_family.$0A~Several_items_distin"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 597\endash 598). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 28 }{\f0\fs24 Judah is sent by his father as a courier to Joseph, to be a liaison between the two. Jacob knows from previous experience what it means in an intense moment to send a party ahead (}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u353\'9A\u257\'61la\u7717\'3F l}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 p\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u772\'AF\u257\'61n\u257\'61yw}{\f0\fs24 ) to meet a family member one has not seen in a good while. Recall the events surrounding the preparation for his meeting with Esau (32:4 [Eng. 3]). There it was Esau. Here it is Joseph. Some twenty years have separated brother from brother and father from son. In both instances Jacob sends a party ahead of him to meet the relative.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge46.28;off=541;ctx=n_Jacob_and_Joseph._~Judah_is_sent_by_his"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 601). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 30}{\f0\fs24   In many ways Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s words, upon seeing Joseph, parallel those of Simeon in the temple: \u8220\'93Lord, now let your servant depart in peace \u8230\'85 for my eyes have seen your salvation\u8221\'94 (Luke 2:29\endash 30). Jacob can now happily accept death, knowing that he will no more go to his grave with unanswered questions about his beloved Joseph\u8217\'92s circumstances.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Jacob had a previous experience of seeing a face, the result of which he was never again the same. The face that time was God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s. He named that place Peniel. He had seen God\u8217\'92s face, yet he continued to live. Having seen Joseph\u8217\'92s face, he needs to live no longer.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Jacob may feel he is now prepared to die, but he will have seventeen more years of life before that moment comes (47:28). Earlier he had seventeen years with Joseph (37:2). After a long hiatus he has another seventeen years with Joseph.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge46.30;off=0;ctx=_him$E2$80$9D_(Luke_15:20).$0A~30__In_many_ways_Jac"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 602\endash 603). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 33-34 }{\f0\fs24 The thrust of Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s last statement is not clear: }{\f0\fs24\i1 an abomination to Egyptians is every shepherd.}{\f0\fs24  Might not such an acknowledgment by Jacob and his children that they are shepherds or cattle-breeders result in their exclusion from Egypt, if in fact such people are an abomination in Egypt? There is slim, if any, indication in Egyptian literature that Egyptians held shepherds in contempt, unless one sees here a popular understanding (Manetho, Josephus) of the term }{\f0\fs24\i1 hyksos }{\f0\fs24 (invaders from Asia in the 17th century }{\f0\fs24\scaps b.c. }{\f0\fs24 who ruled over Egypt for approximately a century, with their capital at Avaris in the Delta), later held in contempt by Egyptians as \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93shepherd kings.\u8221\'94 If Joseph is associated with a group of people, a family, that engages in a despised occupation, what does that do to his own reputation and his ability to expedite his responsibilities? Perhaps it is best to understand Joseph\u8217\'92s remark as applying only to non-Egyptian shepherds, that is, reflecting Egyptian xenophobia. Perhaps this statement by Joseph reflects the tension that existed in Egypt as well between the urbanites and those living in the open country. It also reflects the earlier tension between Abel, who was a shepherd (}{\f0\fs24\i1 r\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u333\'6F\u703\'3F\u275\'65h \u7779\'3F\u333\'6F\u702\'3Fn}{\f0\fs24 , 4:2, the same expression as at the end of v. 34), and Cain, who was a farmer. Cain and the Egyptians are workers of the land. Abel and Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s family are shepherds of the flocks. What in Gen. 4 was a fraternal division is in Gen. 46 an international division.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 In Exod. 8:22 (Eng. 26) Moses stated that offering sacrifices in Egypt would be an abomination in the eyes of the Egyptians. Both Exod. 8:22 (Eng. 26) and Gen. 46:34 use the word }{\f0\fs24\i1 t\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u244\'F4\u703\'3F\u275\'65\u7687\'3F\u225\'E1}{\f0\fs24  (see also its use in 43:32) to point out what Egyptians considered abhorrent, i.e., pastoral pursuits. Precisely why the Egyptians would so view the sacrifices from the flocks of the Hebrews is not stated. In any case, Joseph is encouraging his family to be absolutely honest with Pharaoh regarding their occupation. They are not to try and be something they are not. Dishonesty is an issue that long plagued Jacob and his family. It is Judah who shows his family the way to Goshen. But it falls to his brother Joseph to make it possible for his family to settle in Goshen.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2;ref=BibleBHS.Ge46.33-34;off=874;ctx=nts_before_Pharaoh.$0A~The_thrust_of_Joseph"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 603\endash 604). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}