{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1 }{\f0\fs24\b1 Beersheba.}{\f0\fs24  See 21:33; 26:23\endash 25. This is the end of the Promised Land. Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s odysseys out of the Promised Land begin and end at Beersheba (28:10). God\u8217\'92s revelation here resembles his revelation to Jacob at Bethel (28:10\endash 22).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge46.1;off=220;ctx=t_to_escape_famine.$0A~Beersheba._See_21:33"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 573). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 God of his father Isaac.}{\f0\fs24  Beersheba was a liturgical site of Abraham (see 21:32\endash 33) and Isaac (see 26:23\endash 25), not Jacob (see 28:10\endash 15; 35:6\endash 15). By worshiping at the altar Isaac built, Jacob shows he worships the same God as his fathers. More specifically, he seeks divine assurance that God will be with the elect seed of the patriarchs outside of the Promised Land (cf. 26:2).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge46.1;off=699;ctx=ision_that_follows.$0A~God_of_his_father_Is"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 573). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 2. God spoke.}{\f0\fs24  This is the only report of theophany and promise in Book 10. Once again, upon Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s leaving of the Promised Land, God promises to be with Jacob and to bring him back (28:15). This last recorded speech of God to the patriarchs forms a preview of Israel\u8217\'92s sacred history in the land of Egypt. The next recorded special revelation will be to Moses at the burning bush (Ex. 3:1\endash 4:17), about 430 years later (Ex. 12:40).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge46.2;off=0;ctx=ed_Land_(cf._26:2).$0A~2._God_spoke._This_i"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 573). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 3. I am God.}{\f0\fs24  The title \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93God\u8221\'94 pertains to God\u8217\'92s transcendence over time, space, and people.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 the God of your father.}{\f0\fs24  Jacob worships the God of his father Isaac, and God responds as such.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge46.3;off=0;ctx=sychological_state.$0A~3._I_am_God._The_tit"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 574). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 Do not be afraid.}{\f0\fs24  Peace is declared to each of the patriarchs (Abraham, 15:1, cf. 21:17; Isaac, 26:24; and now Jacob, cf. 35:17). The reassuring command implies disquiet in Jacob about the migration out of the Promised Land to Egypt, a land fraught with danger, and out of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s blessing (see 26:2).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 I will make you into a great nation there.}{\f0\fs24  This is an elaboration of the promises to his fathers (see 12:2; 15:13\endash 14; 17:6, 20; 18:18; 21:13\endash 18). Egypt is the womb God uses to form his nation (see Ex. 1:7 for fulfillment).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 4. I will go down to Egypt with you.}{\f0\fs24  God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s presence does not eliminate pain, but it does assure provision and protection in the midst of it (see 28:15, 20; 31:3, 5, 42; 39:2\endash 3, 21, 23). God will be Jacob\u8217\'92s escort as he goes south to Egypt, just as he was his escort when he went north to Haran (see Theological Reflections below).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge46.3;off=593;ctx=b_(28:13$E2$80$9315$3B_32:9).$0A~Do_not_be_afraid._Pe"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 574). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 I will surely bring you back.}{\f0\fs24  The promise entails God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s commitment to give the patriarchs the land of Canaan. The form is singular, referring both to Jacob, though in a coffin (49:29\endash 32), and his sons in corporate solidarity with him. Jacob will remember this promise at death (47:29\endash 31; cf. 12:1, 7; 13:15; 15:4), as will Joseph (see 50:24\endash 25).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 hand will close your eyes.}{\f0\fs24  The text literally says, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93set his hand upon your eyes\u8221\'94 (see 49:33\endash 50:1). Sarna explains that this is \u8220\'93a reference to the custom that the eldest son or nearest relative would gently close the eyes of the deceased. Such has remained time-honored Jewish practice to the present day.\u8221\'94 God\u8217\'92s presence will be with him until death; he will die in peace, as Abraham had (see 15:13\endash 16).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge46.4;off=331;ctx=Reflections_below).$0A~I_will_surely_bring_"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 574). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 12 }{\f0\fs24\b1 The sons of Perez.}{\f0\fs24  The unique expression }{\f0\fs24\i1 wayyih}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 y\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u251\'FB b}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 n\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u234\'EA}{\f0\fs24 , \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the sons of Perez were,\u8221\'94 probably signals that they do not actually migrate to Egypt but are born there (see Gen. 38). Only two sons of Perez and not those of Zerah may have been included here for several reasons: (1) they replace the sons that died in Canaan, retaining the number of clans Judah sired as five; (2) they give Judah\u8217\'92s genealogy seven sons, the divine number; (3) Perez\u8217\'92s sons are the most important because David is their descendant.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge46.12;off=42;ctx=8:3$E2$80$9310$3B_Num._26:19.$0A~The_sons_of_Perez._T"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 575\endash 576). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 18. whom Laban had given.}{\f0\fs24  This is a reminder of Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s difficult exile in the past from which the ideal and complete family emerged. Jacob\u8217\'92s family will emerge again from what will become a difficult exile in Egypt.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge46.18;off=0;ctx=nealogy_is_unknown.$0A~18._whom_Laban_had_g"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 576). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 19. The sons of Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s wife Rachel.}{\f0\fs24  Rachel is given a superior status in the genealogy. She alone is designated his wife and given a title line.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge46.19;off=0;ctx=r_mistress$E2$80$99s_total.$0A~19._The_sons_of_Jaco"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 576). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 22. Rachel \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85 fourteen.}{\f0\fs24  This includes two sons and twelve grandsons. Because God remembered Rachel (30:22), the once barren wife has a double portion of the divine number of offspring (see 1 Sam. 2:5).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge46.22;off=0;ctx=r_as_a_son_of_Bela.$0A~22._Rachel_$E2$80$A6_fourtee"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 577). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 26. direct descendants.}{\f0\fs24  The Hebrew is literally, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93from his own loins\u8221\'94 (see 24:2).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 sixty-six.}{\f0\fs24  The list includes twelve sons, fifty-two grandsons, four great-grandsons, and two daughters, for a total of seventy. However, Er and Onan, who died in Canaan (see 46:12), and Manasseh and Ephraim, who were born in Egypt (see 46:27), reduce the seventy children of Jacob to sixty-six.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 27. seventy.}{\f0\fs24  The number is arrived at either by including the sons excluded in 46:26 or, more probably, by adding Jacob and Joseph (see Deut. 10:22). The nation in miniature is represented as the ideal and complete number (see 5:5; 10:2; 46:8; Deut. 10:22) and as a microcosm of the nations (cf. 10:1\endash 32; Deut. 32:8; see also Ex. 24:1, 9; Num. 11:16, 24\endash 25; Judg. 1:7; 8:30; 9:2; 1 Sam. 6:19; 2 Kings 10:6; Luke 10:1, 17). Seventy is the multiple of two perfect numbers. In Acts 7:14, based on the }{\f0\fs24\scaps lxx}{\f0\fs24  (Gen. 46:27; Ex. 1:5; Deut. 10:22), the sum is seventy-five (see above).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge46.26;off=0;ctx=Zilpah,_46:15,_18).$0A~26._direct_descendan"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 577). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 28. sent Judah ahead.}{\f0\fs24  Judah is assuming the leadership (see 43:3; cf. Judg. 1:1\endash 2; 20:18). Sarna says, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93It is only fitting that Judah, who bore responsibility for separating Joseph from Jacob (34:26 [}{\f0\fs24\i1 sic:}{\f0\fs24  37:26]), should now be charged with arranging the reunion.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 Jacob was separated from both Esau and Joseph for about twenty years, but here Judah forms a striking contrast to the messengers Jacob sent ahead to meet the dreaded Esau (32:3).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge46.28;off=0;ctx=o_Goshen_(46:28$E2$80$9330)$0A~28._sent_Judah_ahead"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 584\endash 585). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 30. Now I am ready to die.}{\f0\fs24  See Luke 2:29\endash 30. The dreams and visions fulfilled, his attitude toward death revolutionized, Jacob pronounces his }{\f0\fs24\i1 nunc dimittis}{\f0\fs24 . Hamilton says, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Jacob had a previous experience of seeing a face, the result of which he was never again the same. The face that time was God\u8217\'92s.\u8230\'85 He had seen God\u8217\'92s face, yet he continued to live. Having seen Joseph\u8217\'92s face, he needs to live no longer.\u8221\'94 The man who feared his sons would bring him to Sheol in mourning now can die in peace. He will live peacefully another seventeen years.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge46.30;off=0;ctx=See_43:30_and_note.$0A~30._Now_I_am_ready_t"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 585). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 32. shepherds.}{\f0\fs24  They are neither looking for jobs nor for food, just marginal land to pasture their flocks. He offers them the best pastureland. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93[O]ne is struck by the precariousness of their situation in even this best of circumstances,\u8221\'94 notes Fox.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 they tend livestock.}{\f0\fs24  The livestock are defined here as flocks, not cattle. As Hamilton says, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93They want to change residences, but not occupations.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 everything they own.}{\f0\fs24  It will be a long stay, and they need to be well-settled.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 34. detestable.}{\f0\fs24  See 43:32. Even though shepherds are detestable to the Egyptians, he wants his family to be honest, not one of Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s virtues. He also wants to insulate his family so as to retain their unique identity until the patriarchal promises are realized.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge46.32;off=0;ctx=o_settle_in_Goshen.$0A~32._shepherds._They_"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 585\endash 586). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qc\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b1 Hospitality}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Pharaoh and Joseph extend hospitality to Israel\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s family and as a result rescue the family from famine. Hospitality in the Bible is not entertaining. It is, as Kerr summarizes, \u8220\'93\~\u8216\'91being food and drink for one another\u8217\'92 (Wendy Wright, quotation from \u8216\'91Weavings\u8217\'92 calendar, 1992), about enlarging and extending ourselves just as we enlarge and extend our tables to fit another guest. Henri Nouwen states that \u8216\'91the concept of hospitality is one of the richest concepts to deepen our insight in the relationship with our fellow human beings. [I]t may offer a new dimension to our understanding of the healing relationship and the formation of a recreating community.\u8217\'92 Hospitality without the inner stretching of the heart becomes that inferior produce called entertainment.\u8221\'94 Pharaoh shows hospitality as his reasonable service to the man who saves him. So also Christians show hospitality as their reasonable service to their Savior (cf. Matt. 25:31\endash 45).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge46.27"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 577\endash 578). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b1 Sovereign Grace}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 As sovereign, Joseph has the right to honor Benjamin above his brothers. God also exercises his sovereign grace to honor whom he will. God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sovereign grace must not be confounded with his justice. God\u8217\'92s justice demands that he reward obedience and punish disobedience. Beyond that, he shows mercy on whom he will, not because they deserve it (cf. Matt. 20:1\endash 16; Rom. 9:1\endash 29; 1 Cor. 12). Blessed indeed is the church and family that understands this doctrine.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 In spite of a troubled life\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the sharp conflicts among competing wives, harassment from Laban, dishonest and violent children in their youth\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the man formerly exiled in Haran and his family now enter Egypt as an ideal and complete nation in miniature. Most of Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s grandsons, granddaughters, and great-grandsons go unmentioned in the narrative. Nevertheless, they too\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 even those from a Canaanite wife and an Egyptian wife\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 are known by name and numbered among God\u8217\'92s people.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke;ref=Bible.Ge46.27"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 578). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24}