{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ri0\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Thought 1. God demands total commitment to His will. Total commitment involves two acts:\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 (1) When we make a total commitment to do God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s will, we actually begin the journey. That is, we step out by faith. We make the decision and move. We actually set out and go forth.\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 (2) When we make a total commitment to do God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s will, we take all with us. That is, we leave nothing behind that will cause us to hesitate or to turn back, not ever. We pack up everything and go forth to do God\u8217\'92s will.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Nothing\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 not a single thing\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 is left behind that would cause us to turn away from God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s will and return to where we were.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 a. God spoke to Jacob in a vision and called him by name: \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Jacob, Jacob\u8221\'94 (v. 2). This was the last vision to be given to the Patriarchs of Israel. God had given Jacob eight visions altogether (Ge. 28:13; 31:3; 31:11; 32:1; 32:30; 35:1; 35:9; 46:2). Note that this vision was given to Israel, to the father of the nation. This suggests that the promises about to be given were being directed to the nation as a whole as well as to Jacob.\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Note Jacob\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s response: \u8220\'93Here am I\u8221\'94 (v. 2). This is the response of the servant to his Lord. This is the very response we are to make when God calls us to serve Him.\line \u8658\'3F This was the response that Moses made to God.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 b. God identified Himself: \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93I am the true God, the God of your father [Isaac]\u8221\'94 (v. 3). The Hebrew here is the true God (Ha\u8217\'92el). El means \u8220\'93the strong one.\u8221\'94 With the article (Ha) it means: \u8220\'93the one who especially deserves the name.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The point is this: it was the true God who was speaking to Jacob; the true God was the mighty one, the true God of heaven and earth who had the power to do all things. Therefore, Jacob could trust both the Word of God and the power of God. What God was about to say, He would do, for He had the power to do it.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 C. God told Jacob not to fear (v. 3). Why would Jacob fear going down to Egypt?\line 1) Jacob feared Egypt itself, the worldliness and the false worship of the people. He knew that some of his household would be tempted to follow the worldly and idolatrous ways of the Egyptians. This had happened to both his grandfather, Abraham, and his father, Isaac, years before when they had made brief trips out of the promised land (Ge. 12:10\endash 13:4; 26:1\endash 6). The danger of backsliding and slipping into sin was a very real possibility for some of his people if he went into Egypt. Therefore, Jacob had to know beyond a doubt that it was God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s will for him to actually move before he crossed the border into Egypt. He was afraid, very fearful of Egypt and its evil influence upon his people.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 \line 2) Jacob feared leaving Canaan, the promised land.This was the reason he had stopped in Beersheba: to worship and seek the confirmation of God. He wanted God to give him the absolute assurance that it was God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s will for him to leave the promised land to go down into Egypt.\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 3) Jacob feared for his children and grandchildren and for their offspring\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 feared for all his decendents down through the coming generations.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Note what God was to say next: while Jacob was in Egypt, he was to become a great nation of people (v. 3\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u65279\'3Fc). Jacob\u8217\'92s heart was heavy; he feared what lay ahead for him and his dear people. All he knew was what God had predicted years before to his grandfather, Abraham, that his descendents were to be enslaved and afflicted for four hundred years by a strange nation. Just what this involved he, of course, had no idea. But he was obviously sensing a heavy fear over the move into Egypt.\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 But note the glorious message from God: \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93fear not\u8221\'94 (v3). And note who it was telling Jacob not to fear: the true God, the God of heaven and earth, the Person with omnipotent power, the Person who had the power to handle everything and to work all things out for good (v. 3). Jacob could rest assured that God would take care of everything.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Now, God was telling Jacob that his sons were to give rise to the promised seed while there in Egypt. His sons were to give birth to the great nation of people promised by God. The nation was to be born during Jacob\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s stay in Egypt. Jacob could rest assured: God was leading him into Egypt, and it was there that the promised seed was to rise as a nation of people. (See note\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Ge. 28:12\endash 15 for more discussion.)}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 God assured Jacob that He would be with him as he moved (v. 4\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u65279\'3Fa). God\u8217\'92s presence meant \u8230\'85\line \bullet  love, joy, and peace\line \bullet  provision and supply\line \bullet  protection and security\line \bullet  purpose and guidance\line \bullet  fulfillment and satisfaction}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Thought 1. It is essential that we seek God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s will in the major decisions of life. One of the major ways to seek His will is to get alone to worship Him: to pray and ask Him to show us exactly what we should do.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 4 (46:6\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u65279\'3Fb\endash 27) Genealogy\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Obedience\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Israel: Jacob obeyed God with his entire family; he took them all with him to Egypt. Note the emphasis upon Jacob and all his seed and offspring (v. 6\u65279\'3Fb) upon the fact that it was Jacob who took his seed and offspring to Egypt (v. 7).\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The point is this: it was Jacob himself who took the lead in moving the entire family to Egypt. He himself was responsible for this act, the act of seeing that every single person went, that no person was left behind. Jacob was making sure that the entire family did the will of God.\line Thought 1. Within your family, who is responsible to see that everyone does God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s will? Who is the leader, the head of your family?}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 46:28\endash 47:27) Introduction: trials\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 problems\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 difficulties\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 temptations\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 all kinds of severe circumstances cross our paths throughout life. Every young person and adult upon earth has faced some difficult circumstance in his or her life.\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 A question: What would happen to the severe circumstances in our lives if we followed God\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 truly followed Him\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 and did His will? Scripture declares that good after good would come our way: that God would deliver us through the circumstances making us ever stronger, that He would look after us and take care of us, no matter how severe the circumstances might be. This is what this passage is all about.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Jacob Settled in Egypt: What Happens When We Follow God and Do God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s Will, 46:28\endash 47:27.\line 1. Result 1: the family is reunited, brought together again (vv. 28\endash 30).\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 What happens when we do God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s will? Our family is often reunited, brought together again. Jacob was moving his family toward Egypt to be reunited with Joseph. He had not seen Joseph in over twenty-two years. All during his life, Jacob\u8217\'92s family had been divided and at odds with one another because of favoritism.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 But remember, God had intervened in the life of the family.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 He had begun by humbling Joseph through his enslavement and imprisonment. God had taught Joseph the great qualities of leadership, taught him to be humble, kind, compassionate, strong, tough, diligent, hard-working, and serving. And God had raised him up to be the leader of Egypt so that he could save both the world and the chosen family of Israel. This Joseph was now doing. Through a series of tests seen in the former chapters, Joseph had led his brothers \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8230\'85\line \bullet  to confess and repent of their sins\line \bullet  to become genuine followers of God\line \bullet  to make peace with one another\line \bullet  to stand together as a family}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 to stand together as the chosen family of God, the family chosen to bear the promised seed, the great nation of people promised by God and the very special seed, the Savior of the world}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 2. Result 2: help, guidance, and direction are given (vv. 31\endash 34).}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 What happens when we do God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s will? We receive help, guidance and direction for our lives.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Joseph shared how he was going to present the family to Pharaoh (vv. 31\endash 32). He was going to be frank and honest, totally up front with Pharaoh. He was going to share \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8230\'85\line \bullet  that his family were shepherds who tended livestock (v32)\line \bullet  that his family had brought all their livestock and possessions with them (v. 32)}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The family needed to be settled in Goshen for three reasons.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 1) Goshen was fertile, one of the most fertile regions in Egypt. It was excellent pasture and farming land, apparently the area reserved for Pharaoh\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s own livestock, an area where few if any Egyptian citizens were allowed to settle (see Ge. 47:6\u65279\'3Fb). Goshen would, therefore, give Israel plenty of room to grow and expand.\line 2) Goshen was ideal as a home for Israel because shepherds were considered repulsive to the Egyptians (v. 34). Israel would be segregated from the Egyptians, separated, living off by themselves. This would more easily protect Israel from following the worldly ways of the Egyptians and from intermarrying with them. Israel had to keep its godly and racial distinctiveness in order to fulfill God\u8217\'92s great purpose for the nation. Joseph knew this, and no doubt, under God\u8217\'92s guidance and direction, he laid the plans whereby the chosen family of God could be kept separate from the worldly Egyptians. The land of Goshen provided just the right place for Israel to stay true to God.\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 3) Goshen was the ideal home for Israel for a third reason that is not mentioned in any Scripture, but is clearly seen. Goshen was in the northeast region of Egypt, the land closest to Canaan, the promised land. Someday the family would be returning to the promised land. }
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The point to see is the help, the guidance, and the direction that Jacob and his family were receiving. They were being saved from starvation and utter devastation from the famine. Israel had obeyed God: he had followed God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s will by coming down into Egypt. Now God was using Joseph to guide His people step by step.\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Thought 1. What happens when we do God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s will? We receive help, guidance, and direction for our lives. God will use someone\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 some minister, some believer\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 to help us through whatever trial or problem we are facing. God will see that someone gives us guidance and direction. God will see that we are not left in the dark. We will be shown what to do or how to handle the situation.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1}