{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 5-6 }{\f0\fs24 It is conceivable that the brothers will rise in rank in Egypt as their brother Joseph did. Their feet have hardly touched Egyptian soil, and already they are tantalized with the possibility of being placed in charge of the royal cattle. Pharaoh is interested not in }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u702\'3Fan\u353\'9A\u234\'EA miqneh}{\f0\fs24  (\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93cattle-breeders,\u8221\'94 46:32) but in }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u702\'3Fan\u353\'9A\u234\'EA-\u7717\'3Fayil}{\f0\fs24  (}{\f0\fs24\i1 capable men,}{\f0\fs24  47:6). This terminology indicates that the best Egyptian cattle were pastured in the area of Goshen. An Egyptian Pharaoh requesting the services of Hebrew herdsmen to tend his animals may be compared with a Hebrew Solomon requesting the services of Phoenician craftsmen to help him build a temple. Perhaps shepherding is a vocation that the upper-class Egyptian felt beneath his dignity. In this way shepherding was an \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93abomination\u8221\'94 to them (46:34).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Pharaoh is magnanimous. His offer (vv. 5\endash 6) goes beyond the request of Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s brothers in v. 4. They had asked only for permission to sojourn in the land, and to dwell in Goshen. Pharaoh\u8217\'92s words }{\f0\fs24\i1 The land of Egypt lies open to you. In the choice parts}{\f0\fs24  }{\f0\fs24\i1 of the land settle your father}{\f0\fs24  are, in the words of the NT, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine\u8221\'94 (Eph. 3:20, NIV). His words also evidence his benignity toward Joseph.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge47.5-6&off=2427&ctx=ttlement+in+Goshen.%0a~It+is+conceivable+th"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 608). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 7 }{\f0\fs24 I prefer the translation \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93bless\u8221\'94 in Gen. 47:7, 10 [46:7, 10], or at least \u8220\'93greet with a blessing.\u8221\'94 This is something the sons would hesitate to do (and hence its absence in v. 2), but it falls within the jurisdiction of the paterfamilias. Here is one of the relatively rare places in the OT where we find the pattern }{\f0\fs24\i1 A}{\f0\fs24  (the inferior) blessing }{\f0\fs24\i1 B}{\f0\fs24  (the superior). Jacob is inferior to Pharaoh as regards position, but may be superior to Pharaoh in the matter of age, and at least is well beyond the Egyptian ideal of the 110-year life. Perhaps Jacob prayed that the pharaoh may be blessed with a long life. The OT has several instances of a subject entering the presence of royalty and exclaiming \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93O king, live forever!\u8221\'94 (2 Sam. 16:16; 1 K. 1:31; Dan. 2:4; 5:10; 6:7 [Eng. 6]). Such a blessing might also explain why in the next verse Pharaoh inquires about how long Jacob has lived.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Pharaoh has enriched Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s family. He has promoted son Joseph to a prominent position in Egypt. On several occasions he has sent much-needed grain back to Canaan with Jacob\u8217\'92s other sons. He has invited Jacob and his family to Egypt with freedom to settle anywhere. Jacob is profoundly grateful for the assistance Pharaoh has provided. The appropriate response is to bless Pharaoh. \u8220\'93He has enriched us. May God enrich him.\u8221\'94 Vv. 13\endash 26, which detail Joseph\u8217\'92s agrarian reforms, serve as a stunning illustration of the consequence of Jacob\u8217\'92s blessing on Pharaoh.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge47.7&off=1754&ctx=re+total+strangers.%0a~I+prefer+the+transla"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 610\endash 611). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 9 }{\f0\fs24 Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s concern is not that he will apparently fail to live longer than either his father or grandfather. What does concern him is that his life thus far has been }{\f0\fs24\i1 difficult.}{\f0\fs24  Just as the sons answered Pharaoh\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s question, then supplied unsolicited information, so Jacob answers Pharaoh\u8217\'92s question, then supplies an autobiographical summary of his life. When we first encountered Jacob, he was struggling inside his mother\u8217\'92s womb with his twin brother. As we come to the end of Jacob\u8217\'92s life, he is struggling for his life in a famine-devastated Canaan. In between these first and last moments of struggle have been many trying experiences for Jacob. His life has had more sorrow than joy.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge47.9&off=719&ctx=s+but+a+sojourn.%E2%80%9D13%0a~Jacob%E2%80%99s+concern+is+n"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 612). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 11\endash 12}{\f0\fs24   Following Pharaoh\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s orders, Joseph settles his family in Goshen, identified here as }{\f0\fs24\i1 the region of Rameses.}{\f0\fs24  This phrase appears to be an editorial comment, for this terminology was not used until the thirteenth-century pharaohs of the 19th Dynasty. The region of Rameses (cf. Exod. 1:11; 12:37; Num. 33:3, 5) may be identified with Qantir or Tanis in the northeastern delta of the Nile. It became the residence city of the kings of the 19th Dynasty and was built by and named after Ramses II (1304\endash 1227 }{\f0\fs24\scaps b.c.}{\f0\fs24 ). The only way to defend the presence of this place name as early as the setting of the Joseph story, that is, as something other than an editorial insertion or an anachronism, is to suggest that the city bore this name prior to the Ramesside Dynasty, a name that simply meant \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Re has created it.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Joseph exceeds the brothers\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 original request. They would be content to sojourn (}{\f0\fs24\i1 g\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u251\'FBr}{\f0\fs24 ) in Goshen. Instead, Joseph gives them }{\f0\fs24\i1 property}{\f0\fs24  (}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u702\'3F}{\f0\fs24\i1\super a}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7717\'3Fuzz\u225\'E1}{\f0\fs24 ). All of this confirms God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise to Jacob that he would make of Jacob a great nation in Egypt (46:3). This Hebrew word has already appeared in Genesis: when God so spoke to Abraham (17:8), when Abraham requested property in which to bury Sarah (23:4, 9, 20), and in reference to Edomite territory (36:43). It will be used again in 48:4 (Jacob quoting God Almighty to Joseph); in 49:30, in a reference back to ch. 23; in 50:13, also a reference back to ch. 23. Unlike }{\f0\fs24\i1 na\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7717\'3F}{\f0\fs24\i1\super a}{\f0\fs24\i1 l\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u225\'E1}{\f0\fs24 , which refers to inalienable property transmitted by inheritance, }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u702\'3F}{\f0\fs24\i1\super a}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7717\'3Fuzz\u225\'E1}{\f0\fs24  refers to inalienable property received from a sovereign, or at least from one who has the power to release or retain land. That is why this noun is often used with the verb \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93give\u8221\'94 (Gen. 47:11; Lev. 14:34; Num. 27:4; 32:5; Deut. 32:49; etc.).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 How different is Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s descent to Egypt from his grandfather\u8217\'92s (ch. 12)! Both seek out the safety of Egypt because of famine. To save himself Abraham engages in deceit. To save his family Jacob engages in blessing. The Pharaoh at Abraham\u8217\'92s visit was only too happy to see Abraham return to his own country. The Pharaoh at Jacob\u8217\'92s visit insists that Jacob stay and settle on some choice land. Abraham retreats from Egypt. For Jacob Egypt is his new home. Abraham leaves Egypt alive (and happy to be so!). Jacob will leave Egypt dead.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge47.11-12&off=0&ctx=tion+of+his+family.%0a~11%E2%80%9312++Following+Pha"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 612\endash 613). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 13-26}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 To that end Joseph takes from the people their money (v. 14), their livestock (vv. 15\endash 17), and eventually their farmlands and the people\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s own freedom (vv. 18\endash 21). In exchange for these, Joseph gives the people much-needed grain. The first measure (and possibly the second), the giving of money (and cattle), extends even to the land of Canaan (vv. 13\endash 15). The result of this reform is that former landowners now become tenants of Pharaoh, farming the land for him and paying him one-fifth of the produce as tax (vv. 20\endash 26). Temple lands were excepted from this feudalistic system (vv. 22, 26d).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge47.13-26&off=3228&ctx=+a+recurring+event.%0a~To+that+end+Joseph+t"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 618). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Joseph is not a callous, unethical taskmaster. True, the people forfeit ownership of their land to Pharaoh, but Joseph allows them, when this measure can be put into practice, to keep 80 percent of the harvest for themselves. Only 20 percent remains Pharaoh\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s. (Cf. the 10 percent that is Yahweh\u8217\'92s in OT religion.) The people are evidently grateful for this arrangement, for they say to Joseph, }{\f0\fs24\i1 You have rescued our lives}{\f0\fs24  (v. 25). Joseph is a nondiscriminating savior. His concern for Egyptians is no less than his concern for his own family. And apparently Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s reforms were acceptable to later Egyptians as well, or at least to later Pharaohs. Joseph\u8217\'92s decree was still a law in Egypt in the writer\u8217\'92s day (}{\f0\fs24\i1 still in force today,}{\f0\fs24  v. 26). Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s reforms outlived Joseph.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge47.13-26&off=4223&ctx=their+future+needs.%0a~Joseph+is+not+a+call"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 618\endash 619). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 It is difficult to settle on a particular period in Egyptian history when the land-reform system, outlined in Gen. 47:13\endash 26, prevailed in Egypt.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge47.13-26&off=5377&ctx=on+field+produce.43%0a~It+is+difficult+to+s"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 619). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The unit underscores that the Egyptians are saved and Pharaoh prospers because of the measures taken by Joseph.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge47.13-26&off=7590&ctx=nit+as+secondary.48%0a~The+unit+underscores"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 620). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 27 }{\f0\fs24 The added remark in v. 27 is that in Goshen Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s family }{\f0\fs24\i1 were fruitful and became very numerous.}{\f0\fs24  The combination of }{\f0\fs24\i1 p\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u257\'61r\u225\'E1}{\f0\fs24  and }{\f0\fs24\i1 r\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u257\'61\u7687\'3F\u225\'E1}{\f0\fs24  has been common in Genesis (1:28) is the first). In Genesis these verbs normally describe a goal. Here they describe a fait accompli. Even in Egypt God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s blessings are on his own. Jacob blessed Pharaoh (vv. 7, 10), one result of which is spelled out in vv. 13\endash 26. Now it is God who is blessing Jacob. Of course, v. 27b goes well beyond Jacob\u8217\'92s own generation, and even that of his children. Although they are aliens in a strange land, and although they are surrounded by famine, the Israelites are blessed. Neither geography nor natural catastrophe can throttle God\u8217\'92s commitment to his own.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge47.27&off=1210&ctx=state+via+Joseph.10%0a~The+added+remark+in+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 622\endash 623). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 28 }{\f0\fs24 The famine is over by now. Joseph is even further consolidated in his position of authority, and the text is now ready to describe Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s last days.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge47.28&off=941&ctx=distant+time+frame.+~The+famine+is+over+b"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 623). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 29}{\f0\fs24   Jacob/Israel is now on the verge of death. He has one final request. He does not want to }{\f0\fs24\i1 be buried in Egypt.}{\f0\fs24  Moses will forsake Egypt alive. Jacob will forsake Egypt dead. Who better to make sure that his father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s remains do not stay in Egypt than Joseph? Joseph has the authority, and the remaining sons have done little to bolster Jacob\u8217\'92s confidence in them.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 To guarantee that Joseph will fulfill his request, Jacob asks Joseph to place his hand under Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s }{\f0\fs24\i1 thigh}{\f0\fs24  (genitals?) and promise to take Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s remains from Egypt.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge47.29&off=0&ctx=acob%E2%80%99s+last+days.14%0a~29++Jacob%2fIsrael+is+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 623\endash 624). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24}