{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 1. with their flocks and herds.}{\f0\fs24  Joseph emphasizes that his family are shepherds to assure the Pharaoh that they entertain no social or political ambitions and to preserve them from an alien way of life and intermarriage with the Egyptians (see 34:9). The latter threat was more acute with the possession of property in Egypt (see 47:11).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge47.1&off=0&ctx=mises+are+realized.%0a~1.+with+their+flocks"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 586). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 6 }{\f0\fs24\b1 put them in charge.}{\f0\fs24  Egyptian inscriptions frequently mention superintendents\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 often foreigners\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 of the royal cattle. Within their own trade, Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s brothers can advance themselves in Pharaoh\u8217\'92s royal administration and enjoy privileges and protection not normally accorded aliens.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 livestock.}{\f0\fs24  Here the reference is to cattle, not sheep as in 46:32, 34.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge47.6&off=44&ctx=he+land.+See+45:18.%0a~put+them+in+charge.+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 586). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 7 }{\f0\fs24\b1 blessed.}{\f0\fs24  This could be translated \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93greeted\u8221\'94 (see 27:23). Such a greeting entails pronouncements of blessing. The sons do not bless Pharaoh at their meeting; only the patriarch does that.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge47.7&off=419&ctx=ve+the+better+part.%0a~blessed.+This+could+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 587). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 8. How old are you?}{\f0\fs24  The question is perhaps prompted by a blessing of longevity from Jacob or possibly marks the honor of Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s long life and many children. Egyptians were preoccupied with death, and the pharaohs, who professed to be eternal, sought to immortalize their bodies. Jacob at 130\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 and he will live another seventeen years (47:28)\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 already exceeds the ideal Egyptian life span of 110 years (see 50:22). His age must impress Pharaoh.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge47.8&off=0&ctx=atriarch+does+that.%0a~8.+How+old+are+you%3f+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 587). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 9. Jacob said.}{\f0\fs24  He does not exalt himself above Pharaoh, but he also does not refer to himself as Pharaoh\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s servant, as his sons did three times.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge47.9&off=0&ctx=st+impress+Pharaoh.%0a~9.+Jacob+said.+He+do"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 587). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 11 }{\f0\fs24\b1 district of Rameses.}{\f0\fs24  This is the region of Qantir or Tanis in the north-eastern delta of the Nile}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge47.11&off=286&ctx=ptians+(see+47:27).%0a~district+of+Rameses."}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 587). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b1 Hospitality}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The hospitality initiated in the previous scene continues. Pharaoh carries out his promise by legitimizing the presence of the Israelites in Egypt and giving them \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the best of the land of Egypt.\u8221\'94 In Hamilton\u8217\'92s words, \u8220\'93[T]heir feet have hardly touched Egyptian soil, and already they are tantalized with the possibility of being placed in charge of royal cattle.\u8221\'94 In response to Pharaoh\u8217\'92s mercy, the patriarch Jacob blesses him, presumably with longevity and certainly with prosperity.}
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b1 Suffering and Joy}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The suffering of Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s family has been deep. Jacob characterizes his pilgrimage as \u8220\'93difficult.\u8221\'94 Joseph, who once \u8220\'93pleaded for his life\u8221\'94 from a pit, has experienced great injustice. These saints greet relief from their sufferings, when wrongs have been righted, with deep emotion. Joseph, the imperial leader, is often overcome by tears (42:24; 43:30; 45:14; 50:1, 17). He openly clasps his family to him. As Hamilton says, \u8220\'93Tears of sorrow (ch. 37) are replaced by tears of joy (ch. 46).\u8221\'94 These saints are not stoic but are robust and authentic in expressing their emotions. It is a sign of their strength, not weakness.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge47.12"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 588). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 22. did not buy the land of the priests.}{\f0\fs24  Only the Egyptian priests and Israel, which will become a kingdom of priests, escape serfdom. Joseph is related to both: to Israel by blood, to the priests by marriage.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 23. I have bought you and your land \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85 here is seed.}{\f0\fs24  He reduces them to tenant farmers on state land. Nevertheless, the narrator represents them grateful to keep 80 percent of the crop.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 24. a fifth.}{\f0\fs24  Joseph took a 20 percent tax during the years of abundance to provide for the future. Now he takes a 20 percent royal tax for the privilege to farm the crown land and for the starting seed. By ancient Near Eastern standards, 20 percent interest is low; the average was 33 1/3 percent.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 25. saved our lives.}{\f0\fs24  The Egyptians do not regard Joseph as a tyrant but as a savior (see 45:7; 47:15, 19).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge47.22&off=0&ctx=+suits+the+context.%0a~22.+did+not+buy+the+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 590\endash 591). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 26. still in force today.}{\f0\fs24  See 1 Sam. 30:25. The coda assures the historicity of the narrative and contrasts the Egyptian state control of the land with Israel\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s ideal of private ownership of the land as a usufruct from God (e.g., 1 Sam. 8:13\endash 16). Israel dreaded a monarchy that would insist on a royal double tithe.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge47.26&off=0&ctx=ng%2c+from+taking+it.%0a~26.+still+in+force+t"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 591). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 29 }{\f0\fs24\b1 Do not bury me in Egypt.}{\f0\fs24  Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s reason is bound up in the Lord\u8217\'92s promise to the fathers (see 48:21; cf. 50:24).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge47.29&off=834&ctx=ee+its+reliability.%0a~Do+not+bury+me+in+Eg"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 592). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 30 }{\f0\fs24\b1 where they are buried.}{\f0\fs24  This is the cave of Machpelah (see 50:12\endash 14). By faith Israel stakes his destiny in the sworn land, not in an embalmed body in the best land of Egypt (see 47:11; 50:2).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge47.30&off=109&ctx=+(see+15:15%3b+25:8).%0a~where+they+are+burie"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 592). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 31 }{\f0\fs24\b1 worshiped.}{\f0\fs24  Jacob worshiped in thankful praise that his last wish will be fulfilled.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 as he leaned on the top of his staff}{\f0\fs24  [}{\f0\fs24\i1 ma\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7789\'3F\u7789\'3Feh}{\f0\fs24 , so }{\f0\fs24\scaps lxx}{\f0\fs24  and Heb. 11:21]. The }{\f0\fs24\scaps mt}{\f0\fs24  says, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93as he bowed down at the head of his bed\u8221\'94 (}{\f0\fs24\i1 mi\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7789\'3F\u7789\'3F\u226\'E2}{\f0\fs24 ). This was a symbolic gesture of prostration. He is too feeble to bow to the ground (cf. 1 Kings 1:47).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge47.31&off=305&ctx=mission+(cf.+50:6).%0a~worshiped.+Jacob+wor"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 592). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24}