{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1-6 }
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 c. Pharaoh turned to Joseph and gave him two instructions (v. 5):}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab to settle his family wherever he wished, in the best part of the land, in Goshen\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 if that was his desire (v. 6).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab to put them in charge of his own livestock (v. 7).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The point is this: the needs of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s people were being met. God had worked all things out for good: He had exalted Joseph and prepared Pharaoh\u8217\'92s heart for this very moment. Jacob and his family had obeyed God; they had gone down into Egypt. Now God was using Pharaoh and His servant Joseph to meet the needs of His dear people.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . What happens when we do God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s will? Our needs are met. God will always meet our needs if we will only obey Him. But obedience\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 doing exactly what God says\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 is essential. Just think! There is provision to meet every need we have. There is no reason for us to ever have a need that goes unmet. God will meet our needs if we will only turn to Him and follow His will.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge47.1-6&off=1617&ctx=Egyptian+territory.%0a~c.+Pharaoh+turned+to"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 377\endash 378). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 11-27}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 b. Joseph ministered to others: he devised six plans to meet the desperate needs of the Egyptian people (vv. 13\endash 26). The famine was severe: all of Egypt and Canaan were wasting away. There were no crops and no food to be found any place throughout all the land. The only food available was the food that Joseph had led the nation to store away in warehouses during the seven years of plenty. (See note\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 41:46\endash 49 for more discussion.) Joseph devised six plans to save the people from starvation.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1)\tab Plan one was to allow the people to purchase grain with money. (See outline and note\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 41:53\endash 57 for discussion.)}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2)\tab Plan two was to allow the people to purchase grain with their livestock (vv. 15\endash 17). Remember, the famine lasted seven full years. Eventually the people\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s money was all spent; therefore, Joseph had to devise another plan to save the people. He set up a barter system whereby they could exchange their livestock for grain. Note that this carried most of the people through another year of famine (v. 17). This was a great help to the people, for it meant that the government took over the responsibilities for feeding the livestock. There were, no doubt, thousands of livestock dying from starvation, just as there are in any major famine or drought.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 3)\tab Plan three was to allow the people to swap their land and personal labor for grain (vv. 18\endash 20). Note that this proposal was made a year later and that it was made by the people themselves. Henry Morris paints an excellent picture of this plan:}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\i1 When they reached this state, the people came to Joseph with a new proposal of their own. Evidently some sort of meeting had been held and spokesmen elected to contract with Joseph on their behalf. They had nothing left which might be marketable except their own lands and their own labor}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\i1 The people therefore desired to dedicate themselves and their land for service to Pharaoh in return for food on a regular basis, as well as seed with which to sow their lands. They knew the famine would be over eventually, and they should at least do whatever they could with the land from year to year so that it would eventually be able to yield good crops again, but now they no longer had enough even to purchase seed}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\i1 Some people have felt that this was a scheme of Joseph not only to get wealth but also to enslave the people. However, it was their proposal, not Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s, and whatever gain was involved accrued to Pharaoh, not to Joseph. It is true that it created what amounted to a feudalistic economy, but the alternative\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 that of placing everyone on a dole [free, charitable] system\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 would have destroyed personal and national morale, would have bankrupted the government, and probably would have culminated in social anarchy. The stores of food would soon have been depleted and mass starvation would have followed}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\i1 The people had learned to trust Joseph. He had always charged them a fair price and, even though they had used up all their money and marketable possessions, they still had their self-respect}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 4)\tab Plan four was to move the people into the cities for easier and more economical distribution of the food to them (v. 21). Again Henry Morris has a comment on this plan that is worth our noting.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\i1 Joseph relocated many of the people, moving them nearer the various cities where the storehouses were situated. Presumably these people were employed in some form of productive work. The system certainly left something to be desired in terms of human freedom; but a centralized bureaucracy is preferable to mass starvation and anarchy, especially when the bureaucracy is administered intelligently and unselfishly, as it was by Joseph}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 5)\tab Plan five was to leave the priests alone, to let them keep possession of their land (v. 22). Note that this was by order of Pharaoh himself, not by Joseph. Pharaoh needed the priests to give religious encouragement to the people during this most severe crisis. People tend to flock to their religious leaders and houses of worship in severe crises, especially when the crisis lasts on and on, year after year.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 6)\tab Plan six was to make a contract with the people that involved a generous tenant system (vv. 23\endash 26). The people were given seed to plant and harvest. In return for their labor, they were to keep four-fifths (80%) and pay a tax of one fifth (20%) to the government. Again, Henry Morris gives a descriptive picture of the situation.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\i1 In effect, this amounted to a permanent annual income tax of 20 percent of gross income. This is not excessive in terms of present-day standards, especially since these farmers had no rent to pay, no cost of investment or upkeep, in fact nothing except their own personal expenses. Pharaoh and the governmental bureaucracy administered by Joseph financed all government functions on the 20 percent. Presumably, a similar and equitable arrangement was provided for those with specific occupations other than farming, including Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s brothers}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\i1 It is noteworthy that there was little, if any, complaining about these terms. To the contrary, the citizens were grateful to Joseph for saving their lives, recognizing that they were being treated fairly and generously and that there could really be no other plan which would work as well under the circumstances. They only desired to continue to \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93find grace,\u8221\'94 or favor, in the eyes of Joseph, so that the arrangement would remain in operation}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Note that the tenant system and percentages were still in force in the day of Moses, some four hundred years later (v. 26).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 c. The result of Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s ministry upon Israel, those who followed the true and living God, was that they prospered and grew. The point is this: Joseph had the privilege of helping and ministering to the people of his day because he had followed God, truly followed God. God was, therefore, able to use Joseph to help both his family and the people of his day. In fact, Joseph is still helping people today by the dynamic example he set for us\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 all because he followed God so closely, obeyed Him in all things.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . What happens when we do God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s will? We will be given opportunity to help others, to serve and minister to them. If we will follow God\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 truly follow Him\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 He will use us to help others, use us mightily. But note: God will not use a dirty vessel. The vessel has to be clean and holy. We must obey God, diligently seek to obey Him in all things. Then and only then will God use us to truly help others.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge47.11-27&off=1684&ctx=en+each+family+had.%0a~b.+Joseph+ministered"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 379\endash 380). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 28-31}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Now, why was it so important to Jacob that his body be returned to Canaan, the promised land, to be buried with Abraham and Isaac?}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 First, because Jacob believed the great promises of God, the promises that God had made to Abraham and to Isaac and to himself on at least two different occasions. (See outline and notes\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 28:12\endash 15; 35:9\endash 12.)}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He believed the promise of }{\f0\fs24\i1 the promised seed}{\f0\fs24 , that Israel would one day become a great nation of people and through Israel God would send the very special seed, the Savior of the world. (See notes\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 12:2\endash 3; 12:3 for more discussion.)}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He believed in }{\f0\fs24\i1 the promised land}{\f0\fs24 , that God was going to give the promised land to the people of God, those who believed in the true and living God. (See note\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 12:1}{\f0\fs24\super c}{\f0\fs24  for more discussion.)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Jacob was declaring his faith in these promises by asking for his body to be returned to the promised land.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge47.28-31&off=990&ctx=he+head+of+his+bed.%0a~Now%2c+why+was+it+so+i"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 383). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Fourth, the stress that Jacob placed upon his body\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s being returned to the promised land also shows his great faith in the promises of God. Note how he did all that he could to bind Joseph, to make absolutely sure that Joseph followed through with his promise. Jacob demanded that Joseph both take the oath and swear that he would bury his body in the promised land with the other two fathers who had clung to the great promises of God.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Fifth, note what Jacob did when Joseph took the oath and swore: he bowed and worshipped God (v. 31}{\f0\fs24\super b}{\f0\fs24 ). Some translations say that he worshipped while leaning upon his staff (}{\f0\fs24\i1 NIV Study Bible}{\f0\fs24 ). The point to see is that he worshipped God, for he knew that his burial would be a great witness to the great promises of God. In fact, this is exactly what Scripture declares:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Jacob was acting in faith, faith in God\u8217\'92s great promises.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93By faith Jacob, when he was a dying, blessed both the sons of Joseph; and worshipped, leaning upon the top of his staff\u8221\'94 (He. 11:21)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abraham had acted in faith, faith in God\u8217\'92s great promises.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93For he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God\u8221\'94 (He. 11:10)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob had all acted in faith, faith in God\u8217\'92s great promises.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country. And truly, if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out, they might have had opportunity to have returned. But now they desire a better country, that is, an heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God: for he hath prepared for them a city\u8221\'94 (He. 11:13\endash 16).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge47.28-31&off=5598&ctx=r+more+discussion.)%0a~Fourth%2c+the+stress+t"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 383\endash 384). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}