{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 3-4 }{\f0\fs24 Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s repetition of this particular encounter with God may be a gentle reminder to Joseph that Egypt is a temporary abode. It is in Canaan, and only in Canaan, that the promises of God can be realized. What God has graciously done for his people in Egypt is but a foretaste of what he will do for them in Canaan.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.3-4&off=1445&ctx=e+%CA%BFo%CC%82la%CC%84m%2c+forever.+~Jacob%E2%80%99s+repetition+o"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 629). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 5}{\f0\fs24   Jacob started talking about the past (vv. 3\endash 4). He now shifts to the future (vv. 5\endash 6). He will return to the past in v. 7. Most certainly surprising Joseph, Jacob elevates Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s two children from grandsons to sons. To make it clear and unmistakable to Joseph what Jacob is doing, Jacob picks out his two oldest children for comparison\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Reuben and Simeon. Ephraim and Manasseh may now claim Jacob as \u8220\'93father\u8221\'94 as legitimately as any of his other sons. In one move Joseph\u8217\'92s sons become coinheritors with their uncles! This is, of course, the event that explains why, in subsequent times, the descendants of Joseph held two tribal allotments, rather than Joseph himself.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.5&off=0&ctx=for+them+in+Canaan.%0a~5++Jacob+started+tal"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 629). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 No reason is given for Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s action, but a partial explanation will be provided in vv. 8ff. What is his motive? What is Joseph\u8217\'92s response? Joseph knows what it means to be elevated. He has gone from a household slave to Pharaoh\u8217\'92s majordomo. Now his sons will experience an elevation of their own. Jacob has other grandsons with him in Goshen, fifty-one to be exact. Is not this act by Jacob a final demonstration of his gratitude to Joseph? By making Joseph\u8217\'92s sons Jacob\u8217\'92s sons, Jacob is in effect elevating Joseph to the level of himself. That is, both men are now ancestral fathers of the tribes of Israel that will come from them.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.5&off=1668&ctx=thers+of+tribes.%E2%80%9D20%0a~No+reason+is+given+f"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 630). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 7}{\f0\fs24   Again Jacob relives a past event, the death of his beloved wife Rachel as they traveled from }{\f0\fs24\i1 Paddan}{\f0\fs24 (-aram) back to Canaan (35:16\endash 20). A dying man talks about a dead woman. It is not clear why Jacob recalls Rachel\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s death and shares it with Joseph. }{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.7&off=0&ctx=Manasseh+is+unique.%0a~7++Again+Jacob+reliv"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 630). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 It may be that we should see some connection between Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s appropriation of Joseph\u8217\'92s children as his own and his recall of his wife\u8217\'92s death. Had Rachel lived longer, she would have given birth to other children. In taking Joseph\u8217\'92s two children, Jacob increases (posthumously) Rachel\u8217\'92s offspring to four. If that is the case, then Rachel\u8217\'92s prayer at the birth of Joseph (\u8220\'93May Yahweh add another son for me,\u8221\'94 30:24b) has been answered with Benjamin, and again with Ephraim and Manasseh.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.7&off=686&ctx=s+father+there+too%3f%0a~It+may+be+that+we+sh"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 630). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 8}{\f0\fs24   Two problems arise from this brief verse. The first is the apparent contradiction between }{\f0\fs24\i1 When Israel saw}{\f0\fs24  [}{\f0\fs24\i1 wayyar\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u702\'3F}{\f0\fs24 ] }{\f0\fs24\i1 Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sons}{\f0\fs24  and the statement in v. 10 that Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s eyesight was fading so badly that he was not able to see (}{\f0\fs24\i1 l\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u333\'6F\u702\'3F y\u251\'FB\u7733\'3Fal lir\u702\'3F\u244\'F4\u7791\'3F}{\f0\fs24 ). Could he see, or could he not? The second problem is reconciling Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s question to Joseph about Joseph\u8217\'92s sons }{\f0\fs24\i1 (Who are these?)}{\f0\fs24  with the fact that (a) 46:5 says that Jacob knew Joseph had two boys, that he knew they were born in Egypt, that he knew their names; and (b) 45:28 claims that Jacob had by this time lived in Egypt for seventeen years. Might a grandfather live in one place for almost two decades and not recognize his grandchildren?}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.8&off=0&ctx=ingly+in+the+land.%E2%80%9D%0a~8++Two+problems+aris"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 633). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 To respond to the first issue, I suggest that vv. 8 and 10 claim retention of some vision for Jacob. He is not totally blind. He can pick out two bodies standing by his son. But he cannot recognize them until they are standing right in front of him (the second problem). Seventeen years earlier Jacob would have had no need to ask that question. Note that in v. 11 Jacob speaks of his euphoria in \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93seeing\u8221\'94 one more time Joseph\u8217\'92s face. So he is not completely blind.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 It may also be that Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s question should be understood as part of the formal prelude to the forthcoming blessing. That prelude includes formal recognition by Joseph that the young men are his sons. One thinks of the question at a baptism, \u8220\'93What name is given to this child?\u8221\'94 or the question at a wedding, \u8220\'93Who giveth this woman to this man?\u8221\'94\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 neither of which is prompted by the ignorance of the clergyperson.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The only other possible solution is to suppose that these verses have been artificially placed in their current position (i.e., at Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s deathbed), but that their original position was at some point shortly after Jacob arrives in Egypt, say, around 46:30.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.8&off=701&ctx=+his+grandchildren%3f%0a~To+respond+to+the+fi"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 633\endash 634). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 10 }{\f0\fs24 Before Jacob blesses his grandchildren he shows his affections for them by kissing and embracing them. (These two verbs were used in 33:4 when Esau and Jacob were united with each other after a long separation.) Jacob may be losing his eyesight, but he is not losing his emotional attachment to his family. }{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.10&off=330&ctx=ubject+of+blessing.+~Before+Jacob+blesses"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 634). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 11 }{\f0\fs24 Jacob may lament that his days have been few and evil, and that he has not lived as long or as well as his father and grandfather (47:9). Yet Jacob is the only patriarch in these narratives who meets and has any dealings with his grandchildren. We do not read of any exchange between Abraham and Isaac\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s children, or between Isaac and Jacob\u8217\'92s children. In having this privilege, Jacob is exceeded only by Joseph, who saw perhaps three generations beyond him (50:23).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.11&off=675&ctx=lezar%CA%BFak%CC%B1a%CC%84%2c+v.+4).%0a~Jacob+may+lament+tha"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 635). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 12}{\f0\fs24   If Joseph removes Ephraim and Manasseh from Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s knees, then that would indicate that they were still relatively small and young, little lads. In fact, they must be near twenty, for they were born to Joseph before Jacob came to Egypt seventeen years earlier. It is unlikely that a bedridden, elderly, blind, and sickly man could support two young men on his knees. The phrase must mean, then, that Ephraim and Manasseh stood by their grandfather\u8217\'92s bed, near his knees.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.12&off=0&ctx=beyond+him+(50:23).%0a~12++If+Joseph+remove"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 635). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 13 }{\f0\fs24 Of course, Joseph does what he does for two reasons. One, he is trying to give his father (with impaired vision) some assistance. He lines the sons up in their correct positions, something that Jacob could not see well enough to do by himself. Two, Joseph is a traditionalist. He has no reason to believe that anything out of the normal is about to occur. The subtlety of Jacob naming Ephraim ahead of Manasseh back in v. 5 slipped by Joseph unnoticed, even though Jacob named his own children chronologically\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Reuben, then Simeon.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.13&off=684&ctx=s+doting+father.%E2%80%9D29%0a~Of+course%2c+Joseph+do"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 636). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 14}{\f0\fs24   To the surprise of everybody, Jacob crosses his hands and places his right hand on the younger boy and his left hand on the older boy. From this action of Jacob comes the eventual precedence of Ephraim over Manasseh. Jacob may be losing his sight, but he is not losing his insight. For some undisclosed reason Jacob ignores the law of primogeniture. Manasseh thus joins a long list of firstborn in Genesis who for one reason or other are passed by\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Cain, Ishmael, Esau, Reuben, and Zerah. The text is strangely silent about the stimulus for Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s surprise move. How does he know to cross his hands and bless with the right hand the younger boy? Is he guided by \u8220\'93a supernatural impulse\u8221\'94? Does he do a right thing inadvertently?}{\f0\fs24\super 31}{\f0\fs24  In any case, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the blind patriarch shows an insight into the future denied to his clear-sighted (and occasionally clairvoyant) but for once earthbound son.\u8221\'94}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.14&off=0&ctx=euben%2c+then+Simeon.%0a~14++To+the+surprise+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 636). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Through placing his hands on Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s children, Jacob simply engages in an act by which he designates who the recipients of blessing are, and an act by which the actual blessing is bestowed.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.14&off=2240&ctx=an+act+of+blessing.+~Through+placing+his+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 637). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 15\endash 16}{\f0\fs24   Jacob now pronounces a blessing on his two grandsons. The first half of the blessing (vv. 15\endash 16a) is actually a testimony covering three generations. First Jacob bears witness to the religious devotion of his father and grandfather. They walked before God. How appropriate it is for one grandfather, now a father who is blessing his (grand)children, to recall his own father and grandfather. So, Jacob begins by highlighting the God of his fathers and the obedience they lived out before that God.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.15-16&off=0&ctx=sing+is+bestowed.35%0a~15%E2%80%9316++Jacob+now+pro"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 637). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 In one breath Jacob refers to }{\f0\fs24\i1 God}{\f0\fs24  (v. 15b) and in the next breath to }{\f0\fs24\i1 The angel}{\f0\fs24  (v. 16a). In the Genesis narratives an angel, or heavenly messenger, appears at moments fraught with danger and turmoil\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Hagar alone in a desert (16:7\endash 11); Hagar with a near-dead son in the desert (21:17); Abraham holding a knife over Isaac (22:11\endash 18); a servant making a long journey to another country (24:7, 40); Jacob preparing to leave his father-in-law (31:11); Jacob alone by a river, running from Laban and frightened by the prospects of meeting Esau (32:25\endash 31 [Eng. 24\endash 30]). No wonder then that Jacob would here speak of the angel who delivers him }{\f0\fs24\i1 from every distress}{\f0\fs24  }{\f0\fs24\i1 (mikkol-r\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u257\'61\u703\'3F}{\f0\fs24 ).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.15-16&off=1341&ctx=im%2c+liberating+him.%0a~In+one+breath+Jacob+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 637\endash 638). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s blessing has three parts to it: (1) the invocation of God (vv. 15\endash 16a); (2) the prayer for blessing (v. 16b); and (3) the results of the blessing and the prayer (v. 16c, d).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 One result relates directly to the sons themselves. To be blessed means to }{\f0\fs24\i1 multiply,}{\f0\fs24  to be fertile. What God had promised to Jacob (}{\f0\fs24\i1 hirb\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u238\'EE\u7791\'3Fi\u7733\'3F\u257\'61}{\f0\fs24 , 48:4) Jacob wants to see realized in these two lads (}{\f0\fs24\i1 yi\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7695\'3Fg\u251\'FB l\u257\'61r\u333\'6F\u7687\'3F}{\f0\fs24 ).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s other hoped-for result is that his name, and the names of his father and grandfather, will }{\f0\fs24\i1 live on}{\f0\fs24  (lit., \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93be named, called, recalled\u8221\'94) in Ephraim and Manasseh. In other words, his prayer is that from this time on Ephraim and Manasseh will be known as sons of Jacob.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.15-16&off=2507&ctx=+use+their+names.38%0a~Jacob%E2%80%99s+blessing+has"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 638). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 17}{\f0\fs24   Joseph assumes that his father, because of poor eyesight, has mixed up Ephraim and Manasseh. That is why Jacob had to cross his hands, and use his right hand to touch \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Manasseh\u8221\'94 (in reality, Ephraim).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 For one of the few times in his life, Joseph is wrong in his assumption that here protocol should be followed.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.17&off=0&ctx=y+sword+and+bow.%E2%80%9D15%0a~17++Joseph+assumes+t"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 640). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 19 }{\f0\fs24 Only now does Jacob realize the nature of the special and favored role that will be assigned to Ephraim. Ephraim shall be greater than Manasseh, and his descendants will be exceedingly numerous, as his name suggests. In other words, the difference between Ephraim and Manasseh is a comparative one.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.19&off=374&ctx=+self-assurance.%E2%80%9D17%0a~Only+now+does+Jacob+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 641). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 22}{\f0\fs24   To conclude, Jacob gives to Joseph a piece of property (}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u353\'9A}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7733\'3Fem}{\f0\fs24 ) above and beyond what he is giving to his other sons. Part of the enigma of this verse is the qualifying phrase }{\f0\fs24\i1 which I captured from the Amorites with my sword and bow.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.22&off=0&ctx=your+fathers%E2%80%99+land.%0a~22++To+conclude%2c+Jac"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 642). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 In a chapter given over to a narration of the preferential status of of Ephraim over his brothers, the concluding note is one about Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s preferential status over his brothers. Joseph is to his eleven brothers as Ephraim is to Manasseh. Although the family is miles away from Canaan, Jacob deeds a bit of it to Joseph. Jacob started a lot of problems by an extra gift to Joseph\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the multicolored coat, which created friction. For a second time Jacob gives to Joseph an extra gift: }{\f0\fs24\i1 one mountain slope.}{\f0\fs24  We know how the brothers reacted to the coat. We do not know how they reacted to the gift of real estate.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge48.22&off=1968&ctx=quest+of+Shechem.25%0a~In+a+chapter+given+o"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 644). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0}