{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1 }{\f0\fs24\b1 So he took.}{\f0\fs24  Joseph consecrates his sons of an Egyptian mother to the God of Israel and his covenant people. By bringing his sons to Jacob for this adoption ritual, he corrects any misunderstanding of their names to mean that he either forgot his family (so Manasseh) or that he hoped to be fruitful in the land of Egypt (so Ephraim; see 41:50\endash 52).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge48.1&off=424&ctx=lness+in+the+Bible.%0a~So+he+took.+Joseph+c"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 595). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 Manasseh and Ephraim.}{\f0\fs24  The order represents Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s viewpoint that by primogeniture rights the older will be greater than the younger. Jacob will reverse it (48:5, 13\endash 14, 19).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge48.1&off=845&ctx=(see+41:50%3b+47:28).%0a~Manasseh+and+Ephraim"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 595). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 3 }{\f0\fs24\b1 God Almighty.}{\f0\fs24  See 17:1 and note.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 appeared to me.}{\f0\fs24  Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s authority to legitimate Joseph\u8217\'92s two sons as numbered among his twelve sons comes from the theophanies given especially to him. Joseph, having never experienced such theophanies, does not have this authority.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 Luz.}{\f0\fs24  This is the ancient name of Bethel (see 28:10\endash 22 and notes).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 blessed.}{\f0\fs24  God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s blessing on Jacob empowers him to bless the twelve tribes (48:5\endash 49:28).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge48.3&off=808&ctx=on+(vv.+10%E2%80%9312).%E2%80%9D168%0a~God+Almighty.+See+17"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 595\endash 596). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 4. land \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85 descendants.}{\f0\fs24  These are dominant themes of Genesis (see 12:7 and notes).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 community of peoples.}{\f0\fs24  See 28:3 and note. The promise to Israel is narrowed down to Ephraim in 48:19\endash 20. During the divided monarchy (930\endash 722 }{\f0\fs24\scaps b.c.}{\f0\fs24 ) Ephraim\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s descendants, as the most powerful tribe, sometimes gave their name to all the peoples that made up the northern kingdom (e.g., Isa. 7:2, 5, 8\endash 9; Hos. 9:13; 12:1, 8).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge48.4&off=0&ctx=ribes+(48:5%E2%80%9349:28).%0a~4.+land+%E2%80%A6+descendant"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 596). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 5 your two sons.}{\f0\fs24  He chooses Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s two sons out of his fifty-two grandsons (46:7\endash 27).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 reckoned as mine.}{\f0\fs24  The adoption ritual includes placing them upon his knees, symbolizing his giving them birth in place of Asenath daughter of Potiphera, priest of On. Intrafamily adoptions are attested in the Bible (cf. Ruth 4:16\endash 17; Esth. 2:7) and in the ancient Near Eastern documents. Mendelsohn cites an Akkadian legal document from Ugarit in which a grandfather adopts his grandson and makes him the heir.}{\f0\fs24\super 170}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 Ephraim and Manasseh.}{\f0\fs24  See 48:1 and note. He names Ephraim first because he intends to put Ephraim first in the blessing (48:19\endash 20).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 Reuben and Simeon.}{\f0\fs24  The first two sons of Leah are singled out because they are being bypassed to give the double portion to Joseph (cf. Gen. 35:23) through the adoption of his two sons. The Chronicler explains: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93when he [Reuben] defiled his father\u8217\'92s marriage bed, his rights as firstborn were given to the sons of Joseph son of Israel\u8221\'94 (1 Chron. 5:1; cf. Gen. 49:3\endash 4). Simeon and Levi may have been bypassed because of their crimes against Shechem (49:5\endash 6). Besides, Joseph is Jacob\u8217\'92s firstborn by Rachel, his favorite wife. Thus Rachel\u8217\'92s firstborn supersedes Leah\u8217\'92s firstborn, and Joseph\u8217\'92s two sons enjoy equal status with Reuben and Simeon among the twelve tribes of Israel.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge48.5&off=134&ctx=blessing+on+Joseph.%0a~your+two+sons.+He+ch"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 596\endash 597). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 6 under the names.}{\f0\fs24  Though reckoned as Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s, they will perpetuate the names of Ephraim and Manasseh (see Gen. 38:8; Deut. 25:5\endash 6). Joseph\u8217\'92s territory could be divided into two tribes because Levi receives no share of the land (Josh. 14:4). The total number of tribal allotments remains twelve.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge48.6&off=288&ctx=s+grasped+by+faith.%0a~under+the+names.+Tho"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 597). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 8 }{\f0\fs24\b1 he asked.}{\f0\fs24  Jacob certainly knows Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sons; he has proposed adopting them by name! It seems unlikely that he has never met them during his seventeen years in Egypt. Possibly he cannot see clearly. More probably, the question to identify the beneficiaries is part of the legal ritual of adoption and/or blessing (cf. 27:18). Hamilton explains, \u8220\'93One thinks of the question at a baptism, \u8216\'91What name is given to this child?\u8217\'92 or the question at a wedding, \u8216\'91Who giveth this woman to this man?\u8217\'92\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 neither of which is prompted by the ignorance of the clergyperson.\u8221\'94}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge48.8&off=160&ctx=see+48:3+and+note).%0a~he+asked.+Jacob+cert"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 597). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 9. God has given me.}{\f0\fs24  Joseph recognizes his children as God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s gift. He gives the same answer as Jacob gave Esau to a similar question; he shares his father\u8217\'92s faith (see 33:5; 41:50\endash 52 and note).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge48.9&off=0&ctx=lationship+to+you.%E2%80%9D%0a~9.+God+has+given+me."}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 597). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 11. God has allowed me to see your children.}{\f0\fs24  The adoption ceremony begins with Joseph crediting God for his sons and ends with Jacob praising God. God blesses both father and grandfather through these boys. To Joseph they are an incredible gift after years of affliction; to Jacob they are an incredible vision after he had lost all hope of ever seeing Joseph. Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s and Jacob\u8217\'92s reflections of God\u8217\'92s present blessings set the spiritual milieu for the blessings that follow.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 12. Then Joseph removed them.}{\f0\fs24  The adoption ritual is over.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 from Israel\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s knees.}{\f0\fs24  The Hebrew literally reads, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93from with his knees.\u8221\'94 It is highly unlikely that a bedridden, dying old man had twenty-year-old boys on his knees. More probably they were \u8220\'93at/near Israel\u8217\'92s knees.\u8221\'94 In any case, it is a legal gesture symbolizing their adoption (see 30:3 and note).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 bowed down with his face to the ground.}{\f0\fs24  This is contra the dream (37:10). The one equal to the Pharaoh (see 44:18) humbles himself before the patriarch who mediates God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promises (cf. 24:52; 33:3; 42:6; 43:26). This concludes the adoption ritual.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge48.11&off=0&ctx=+blessing+of+Jacob.%0a~11.+God+has+allowed+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 598). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 13. took both of them.}{\f0\fs24  The blessing ritual now begins (cf. 48:10).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 toward Israel\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s right hand.}{\f0\fs24  Joseph \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93stage-manages\u8221\'94 the setting to give Manasseh the greater blessing by placing him under the right hand, the position of strength, honor, power, and glory (cf. Ex. 15:6; Ps. 89:13; Prov. 3:16; Eccl. 10:2; Matt. 25:33; Acts 2:33).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 14. But Israel reached out.}{\f0\fs24  The gesture of blessing differs from the gestures of adoption (cf. 48:10).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 crossing his arms.}{\f0\fs24  \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Jacob may be losing his sight, but he is not losing his insight.\u8221\'94 Sternberg reflects, \u8220\'93[T]he blind patriarch shows an insight into the future denied to his clear-sighted (and occasionally clairvoyant) but for once earthbound son.\u8221\'94}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge48.13&off=0&ctx=Manasseh+(48:13%E2%80%9320)%0a~13.+took+both+of+the"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 598\endash 599). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 15 }{\f0\fs24\b1 blessed.}{\f0\fs24  See 48:3. Jacob blesses as his father had blessed him (27:27\endash 29). In the blessing to be given, Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s perspective shifts from God\u8217\'92s miraculous blessings on him in Egypt in allowing him to see his favored son (see 45:28; 46:30) to the great blessing to come upon Joseph\u8217\'92s sons when they return to the sworn land. By becoming part of the covenant family, Ephraim and Manasseh become heirs to all of its divine blessings of progeny and protection. The blessings are summarized by two epithets of God: Shepherd and Angel.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge48.15&off=73&ctx=ary+Analysis+above.%0a~blessed.+See+48:3.+J"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 599). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 my shepherd.}{\f0\fs24  The first of two epithets is an intimate royal metaphor for God that signifies his provision, restoration, and protection (see Ps. 23:1; cf. Gen. 49:24). The aged shepherd acknowledges God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s special shepherding of his life.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 16. the Angel.}{\f0\fs24  The parallelism strongly suggests equating God with the angel. In other texts the distinction between God and his angel becomes attenuated (see 16:7). The incarnate God wrestled with Jacob and, having heard his cry to be blessed, blessed him and delivered him from Esau (see 32:25\endash 26; cf. Hos. 12:4).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 from all harm.}{\f0\fs24  This second epithet focuses on God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s protection. Heretofore an angel has appeared in crises (Gen. 16:7\endash 11; 21:17; 22:11\endash 18; 31:11; 32:1\endash 2, 24\endash 30). Jacob has learned the reality of God\u8217\'92s presence through experience (see 28:12; 31:11; 32:1\endash 3, 22\endash 32).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge48.15&off=1040&ctx=st+walk+before+him.%0a~my+shepherd.+The+fir"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 599). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 greatly.}{\f0\fs24  The combined number of males in Ephraim and Manasseh increases from 72,700 (Num. 1:32\endash 35) in the second year after the Exodus to 85,200 forty years later (Num. 26:28\endash 37). By contrast, the combined populations of Reuben and Simeon during the same period of time decreases from 105,800 to 65,930. The tribes of Joseph become the paradigm of spectacular increase (see. Gen. 48:20; cf. Deut. 33:17).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge48.16&off=1135&ctx=%E2%80%9D+(cf.+Num.+11:22).%0a~greatly.+The+combine"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 600). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 19. his father refused.}{\f0\fs24  The patriarch, empowered by God, is greater than the ruler of Egypt.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge48.19&off=0&ctx=n+(cf.+Gen.+17:18).%0a~19.+his+father+refus"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 600). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 his younger brother.}{\f0\fs24  God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s ways in sovereign grace override human ways of social convention (see Isa. 55:8\endash 9)\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Abel versus Cain, Isaac versus Ishmael, Jacob versus Esau, Perez versus Zerah, Joseph versus Reuben, and Ephraim versus Manasseh. In Genesis, God often chooses the younger son, not the older, to carry the divine family\u8217\'92s heritage (Deut. 33:17).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 will be greater than he.}{\f0\fs24  See 25:25 and note. In the census taken in the second year after the Exodus, the male population of Ephraim is 20 percent more than that of Manasseh (see Num. 1:33, 35). In the second census a generation later, however, the male population of Manasseh exceeds that of Ephraim (Num. 26:34, 37) by 40 percent (cf. 1 Chron. 7:20\endash 23). Eventually, however, Ephraim gains the numerical superiority (cf. Deut. 33:17).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge48.19&off=350&ctx=conscious+blessing%3f%0a~his+younger+brother."}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 600). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 21 as one who is over your brothers, I give the ridge of land.}{\f0\fs24  The Hebrew is ambiguous, literally reading, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I give to you Shechem/shoulder over your brother(s).\u8221\'94 This may mean: (1) he gives Shechem, including its well, to Joseph, who is above his brother(s) (see Gen. 33:18\endash 19; 37:12, 14; Josh. 24:32; John 4:5); (2) he gives Joseph a ridge\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 interpreting \u8220\'93shoulder\u8221\'94 as a ridge of land; (3) he gives Joseph one more portion\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 interpreting \u8220\'93shoulder\u8221\'94 to be a metonymy for portion\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 than his brother(s). The first is the best option because the other meanings of }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u353\'9A}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7733\'3Fem}{\f0\fs24  are unattested and unnecessary. Moreover, as the references cited show, the city is historically connected with Jacob and Joseph.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 Amorites.}{\f0\fs24  See 15:16. This generic term refers to the pre-Israelite inhabitants of Canaan, including the Hivites (see 34:2).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge48.21&off=172&ctx=ildren+(cf.+48:20).%0a~as+one+who+is+over+y"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 601). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b1 Sovereignty and Sin}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 If the interpretation of 48:22 offered above is right, Jacob took Shechem through the cruelty of Simeon and Levi without acquitting them. Elsewhere God uses evil to achieve his aims without acquitting the guilty: for example, in his use of unbelieving Israel to establish the monarchy (1 Sam. 8\endash 10); in his use of Assyria to punish Israel (cf. Isa. 10:5\endash 11); in his use of wicked hands to shed the saving blood of Jesus Christ (Acts 2:23; 1 Cor. 2:6\endash 10).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge48.21&off=1993"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 602). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24}