{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;\red240\green240\blue240;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 8-10 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 a. Jacob showed deep affection for his grandchildren, Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s two sons (vv. 8\endash 10). Jacob was almost blind and needed to make sure that the two dim figures standing beside Joseph were his two sons. Thus, he asked who they were (v. 8).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab When Joseph identified them, Jacob asked that he bring them to him, by his knees, so he could bless them (v. 9).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab When Joseph moved his sons forward to his father, Jacob took them in his arms and kissed them (v. 10).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Jacob then expressed his deep affection for Joseph and his sons (v. 11). He had never expected to see Joseph, much less any sons of Joseph. But now, God had not only allowed him to see Joseph again, but God had given him the great privilege of seeing the two sons of Joseph.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab When Joseph heard this, he was so emotionally moved that he pulled his two sons back from his father\u8217\'92s knees, and he himself bowed in respect before his father (v. 12).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge48.8-22&off=182&ctx=and+touching+scene.%0a~a.+Jacob+showed+deep"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 385). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 d. Jacob began the blessing by calling upon God (v. 15). Note exactly whom he was calling upon: not some false god, but the true God.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1)\tab Jacob called upon the God before whom Abraham and Isaac walked (v. 15). This was the true God: the God who had revealed Himself to Abraham and Isaac. Abraham and Isaac had not followed after some false god: they were followers of the true God of heaven and earth. They knew Him personally, for He had revealed Himself to them. They had actually talked with Him. And they had sought to walk and to live holy lives before Him. Jacob was calling upon the true God to bless Joseph and his two sons.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2)\tab Jacob called upon the God who had fed him and been his shepherd throughout life (v. 15}{\f0\fs24\super b}{\f0\fs24 ). The Hebrew word for }{\f0\fs24\i1 fed me}{\f0\fs24  or }{\f0\fs24\i1 shepherd}{\f0\fs24  is the same (Roeh or Raah). Jacob was calling upon the God who had looked after and taken care of him: the God who had fed, guided, protected, and saved him, who had made provision for every need he had. Jacob was calling upon the Shepherd of the universe to look after Joseph and his two sons.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge48.8-22&off=1494&ctx=ounger+son+(v.+14).%0a~d.+Jacob+began+the+b"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 385\endash 386). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 e. Jacob asked God to bless Joseph and his two sons by doing two things for them (v. 16}{\f0\fs24\super b}{\f0\fs24 ).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Jacob asked God to make sure that they were called Israel, that they were accepted as true sons of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. This was the formal statement of adoption whereby the two sons would always be acknowledged as true sons of Jacob. They were thereby to inherit the promised land, their portion of the great promise of God.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Jacob asked God to make them a great multitude of people, that they be a part of the promised seed, the great nation of believers that God had promised (v. 16}{\f0\fs24\super c}{\f0\fs24 ).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge48.8-22&off=4063&ctx=oseph+and+his+sons.%0a~e.+Jacob+asked+God+t"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 386). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 21-22}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 i. Jacob then turned to Joseph himself to bless him (vv. 21\endash 22).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1)\tab Jacob assured Joseph that God would be with him and return him to the promised land (v. 21). Jacob knew that God would always be with his son because God had always been with him.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab God had promised to be with Jacob when his brother, Esau, threatened to kill him.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And, behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee in all places whither thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land; for I will not leave thee, until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of\u8221\'94 (Ge. 28:15)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab God had promised to be with Jacob when God called him to return to the promised land.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And the Lord said unto Jacob, Return unto the land of thy fathers, and to thy kindred; and I will be with thee\u8221\'94 (Ge. 31:3)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab God had protected Jacob from harm by His presence.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And said unto them, I see your father\u8217\'92s countenance, that it is not toward me as before; but the God of my father hath been with me\u8221\'94 (Ge. 31:5)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Jacob never forgot that God\u8217\'92s presence had always been with him, providing and protecting him.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And let us arise, and go up to Beth-el; and I will make there an altar unto God, who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went\u8221\'94 (Ge. 35:3)}{\f0\fs24 .}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge48.8-22&off=5871&ctx=+Manasseh%E2%80%9D+(v.+20).%0a~i.+Jacob+then+turned"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 386\endash 387). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . The point to see is Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s great affection and the great blessings he pronounced upon his son and his two grandsons. Jacob\u8217\'92s affection and blessing are a living example for us. We should all lead our children and grandchildren to trust God, and we should ask God to bless them richly.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge48.8-22&off=7660&ctx=buried+in+Shechem.4%0a~Thought+1.+The+point"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 387). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0


\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clcbpat5\cellx4000

\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps\cb5\highlight5 Deeper Study}{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5  # 1}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 (48:17\endash 18) }{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 Blessings\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Birthright\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Firstborn\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Sovereignty, Of God\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Grace}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 : in Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s day, the firstborn was always to receive the best\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 a double portion\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 of the family\u8217\'92s inheritance and blessing. But often, in God\u8217\'92s sovereignty, the younger son was chosen to be more greatly used in God\u8217\'92s purposes. This is one of the facts immediately noticed throughout Scripture.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Seth was chosen before Cain.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Shem was chosen before Japheth.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abraham was chosen before Haran.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Isaac was chosen before Ishmael.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Jacob was chosen before Esau.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Ephraim was chosen before Manasseh.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Moses was chosen before his brother.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Gideon was chosen before his brothers.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab David was chosen before his brothers.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 In each of these cases, God was demonstrating two great truths: His sovereignty and His grace.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\fi360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 1. There was God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sovereignty. Man has tended toward choosing the older child to take on the responsibility for the family when needed, not always, but usually. But God knows the human heart, and He has the right as God to choose any person He wants. Therefore, when He chose the younger son, God\u8217\'92s sovereignty was honored and man\u8217\'92s evaluation and plans were humbled.}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 2. There was God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s grace. God\u8217\'92s grace is always seen when He chooses the younger son. If the laws and customs of men were followed, the younger son would never receive the greater blessings. If he ever received them, it was because man\u8217\'92s law and custom were bypassed. Therefore, when the younger son received the greater blessing, it was being freely given to him. The blessing was given by grace, entirely undeserved, unmerited, and unearned by law. The younger son received the greater blessing simply because God freely chose him to receive them.}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 This meant that he owed all the blessings to God. All that he had belonged and was due to God, not to himself nor to any other person. (See note, pt. 2\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 25:23; also see notes\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ro. 9:7\endash 13 for more discussion.)}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge48.8-22&off=8473&ctx=ildren%E2%80%9D+(Tit.+2:4).%0a~Deeper+Study+%23+1%0a(48"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 387). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24\cell{
\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clcbpat5\cellx4000
\row}\pard}