{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1 What he is about to share with them is in the form of an inspired prophecy about the destiny of each son as extended into the tribe emanating from that son. Each saying has to do with }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 the coming days}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 b}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\super e}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u702\'3Fa\u7717\'3F}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\super a}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 r\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u238\'EE\u7791\'3F hayy\u257\'61m\u238\'EEm}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ). This expression occurs thirteen times in the OT, eight of which are in the prophetic books (nine if one includes Daniel). Of these texts, the most similar to Gen. 49:1 is Deut. 31:29 (and the surrounding verses). Both begin with a command to assemble (}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 h\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u275\'65\u702\'3F\u257\'61s}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\super e}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 p\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u772\'AF\u251\'FB}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  [Gen. 49:1], }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 hiqq\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u257\'61\u7687\'3F}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1\super e}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u7779\'3F\u251\'FB}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  [Gen. 49:2]; }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 haqh\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u238\'EEl\u251\'FB}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  [Deut. 31:28]). Both contain the expression \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93in the coming days.\u8221\'94 In both someone is told to listen to what is about to be said (}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u353\'9Aim\u703\'3F\u251\'FB}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  [Gen. 49:1, 2]; }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 ti\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u353\'9Ama\u703\'3F}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  [Deut. 32:1]). Thus Jacob addressing his sons is comparable to Moses addressing the assembly of Israel.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.1&off=660&ctx=yiqra%CC%84%CA%BE+%CA%BEet%CC%B1k%CC%B1em).9%0a~What+he+is+about+to+"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 646). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f4\fs24\b1\i0 3\endash 4}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0   The saying directed to Reuben has two parts. The first is a word about privilege. Reuben is Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 firstborn,}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  once a source of inestimable joy to his father. The second is a word about accountability. Because Reuben slept with Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s concubine (35:22), he forfeits all the privileges that go with primogeniture. This forfeiture is fulfilled historically in later times when the Reubenites living in Transjordan are integrated into the tribe of Gad.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 From this first oracle the teaching is clear that the behavior of one individual affects the destiny of his descendants. God does visit the iniquities of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generation of those who live licentiously, as did Reuben (Exod. 20:5). This promise works in a positive direction as well. Recall God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s words to Abraham, \u8220\'93And by your descendants shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because you have obeyed my voice\u8221\'94 (22:18); or God\u8217\'92s words to Isaac, \u8220\'93I will multiply your descendants \u8230\'85 because Abraham obeyed my voice\u8221\'94 (26:4\endash 5). Or, we may go as far back as the story of Sodom and Gomorrah (Gen. 18\endash 19), which teaches that a nucleus of righteous people guarantees the survival of a city for one\u8217\'92s children and grandchildren.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.3-4&off=0&ctx=%3b+5:7%3b+7:24%3b+8:32).%0a~3%E2%80%934++The+saying+dire"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 647). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 5-7 In his words addressed to Simeon and Levi, Jacob recalls a previous incident in which they were involved, as he did with Reuben. The antecedent for Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s rebuke against sons two and three is obviously the incident recorded in Gen. 34, Simeon\u8217\'92s and Levi\u8217\'92s massacre of the male population of Shechem in retaliation for the humiliation of their sister Dinah. Here is another illustration, as in the Reuben oracle, of the principle that the behavior of one generation affects the circumstances of later generations.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s oracle to Simeon and Levi is composed of (a) an address or a heading (v. 5a); (b) an accusation (v. 5b-c); (c) a statement of dissociation from the criminals (v. 6a-b); (d) justification for this dissociation (v. 6d-e); (e) the pronouncement of a curse (v. 7a-b); (f) the particulars of this curse (v. 7c\endash d). Vv. 5\endash 7b refer to past history. V. 7c\endash d is future history.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.5-7&off=420&ctx=se+them+in+Israel.%E2%80%9D%0a~In+his+words+address"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 651). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 It should be observed that Jacob addresses Reuben directly in the second person: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93You, Reuben, my firstborn, \u8230\'85 you shall no longer excel, For you climbed \u8230\'85 you defiled.\u8221\'94 But with Simeon and Levi Jacob speaks indirectly in the third person: }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 they destroyed \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8230\'85 They treated violently \u8230\'85 their council \u8230\'85 their company \u8230\'85 their anger \u8230\'85 they murdered \u8230\'85 they hamstrung \u8230\'85 their fury \u8230\'85 their rage; I will scatter them \u8230\'85 I will disperse them.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.5-7&off=2859&ctx=em%3f+Jacob+himself%3f)%0a~It+should+be+observe"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 651\endash 652). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The father pronounces a curse on the perpetrator(s) that really touches the perpetrator\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s descendants more than the perpetrator himself (Canaan, the tribes of Simeon and Levi).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The second item of interest is Jacob speaking in v. 7c\endash d as if he were God: }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 I will scatter them \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8230\'85 I will disperse them.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.5-7&off=3618&ctx=ecarious+situation.+~The+father+pronounce"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 652). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Eventually Simeon is integrated into the tribe of Judah, and hence }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 scatter}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  here means \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93dissolve.\u8221\'94 Levi is dispersed in the sense that the Levites are never given a territory of their own, but are divided up among the remaining tribes.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.5-7&off=4496&ctx=+action+came+about.+~Eventually+Simeon+is"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 652). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 8}{\f0\fs24   In the first verse of the oracle Judah is given a more honorable position than his brothers by his brothers. They praise Judah (note the play on sound here\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 }{\f0\fs24\i1 y}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 h\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u251\'FB\u7695\'3F\u225\'E1 y\u244\'F4\u7695\'3F\u251\'FB\u7733\'3F\u257\'61}{\f0\fs24 ) and bow before him. What Jacob raised derogatorily as a possibility with Joseph (37:10) he now affirms with Judah. The reason for the exaltation of Judah is because of Judah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s impressive accomplishments\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 }{\f0\fs24\i1 your hand is on the neck of your enemies}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.8&off=0&ctx=r+daughter-in-law%E2%80%9D%3f%0a~8++In+the+first+vers"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 657\endash 658). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 9}{\f0\fs24   Here Jacob shifts from a description of what Judah had done to what Judah is like. Judah is described as lionesque. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.9&off=0&ctx=n+his+real+enemies.%0a~9++Here+Jacob+shifts"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 658). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 10}{\f0\fs24   The crux in vv. 8\endash 12 is v. 10, particularly the third line of the verse. The first two lines suggest that Judah will continue to enjoy eminence, the tribe will never lose its place of primus inter pares, }{\f0\fs24\i1 until he possesses that which belongs to him.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.10&off=0&ctx=werful+is+the+lion.%0a~10++The+crux+in+vv.+"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 658\endash 659). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Both LXX and 4QPBless would agree then that the phrase be understood as \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93until he comes to whom it [the scepter, the kingship] belongs.\u8221\'94 The Hebrew would have to be read as \u8220\'93until that which is his comes.\u8221\'94 If that is what Gen. 49:10 is saying, then we are faced with a Hebrew grammatical anomaly for which the Hebrew Bible offers no parallel.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.10&off=3627&ctx=ing+generations.%E2%80%9D31%0a~Both+LXX+and+4QPBles"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 661). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 There are, then, four major approaches to Gen. 49:10c: (1) attempt to make sense of MT by retaining \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Shiloh\u8221\'94; (2) follow the reading of the ancient versions (\u8220\'93that which is his\u8221\'94); (3) emend }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u353\'9A\u238\'EEl\u333\'6Fh}{\f0\fs24  to }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u353\'9Aay l\u333\'6Fh}{\f0\fs24  (\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93tribute to him\u8221\'94); (4) discover in \u8220\'93Shiloh\u8221\'94 some Semitic word meaning \u8220\'93ruler\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93prince.\u8221\'94 Of course, many other interpretations have been suggested, including those who see Judah\u8217\'92s son Shelah in Shiloh, and those who resort to yet other redivisioning of the consonants.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.10&off=4909&ctx=)%3b+76:12+(Eng.+11).%0a~There+are%2c+then%2c+fou"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 661). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 11-12}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 If one understands vv. 11 and 12 as further descriptions of the messianic scion mentioned in v. 10, then these two verses would describe the individual\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s wealth (v. 11) and his beauty (v. 12). Tethering an ass to a vine (which the ass would readily consume) would be like lighting a cigarette with a dollar bill. Laundering one\u8217\'92s clothing with wine might also point to opulence.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 It is clear that }{\f0\fs24\i1 wine}{\f0\fs24  is not exactly the same as }{\f0\fs24\i1 grapes\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92 blood.}{\f0\fs24  The first refers to the finished product. The second refers to the crushing of the grapes. May we have here a pastoral image, but within which there is the intimation of violence? May there be both a laundering of wine and a laundering of blood? To his own this one will bring joy and fullness; to those who reject him he brings terror.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The NT does not appropriate any part of this messianic oracle. The most likely allusion to this text occurs in reference to Jesus\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 triumphal entry into Jerusalem (Matt. 21:1\endash 9; Mark 11:1\endash 10; Luke 19:28\endash 38; John 12:12\endash 18). The major OT citation in these passages is Zech. 9:9. One description of the animal on which Jesus sits or rides in Zech. 9:9 is \u8220\'93a colt, the foal of she-asses\u8221\'94 (}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u703\'3Fayir ben-\u702\'3F}{\f0\fs24\i1\super a}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u7791\'3F\u333\'6Fn\u244\'F4\u7791\'3F}{\f0\fs24 ). }{\f0\fs24\i1 ben-\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u702\'3F}{\f0\fs24\i1\super a}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u7791\'3F\u333\'6Fn\u244\'F4\u7791\'3F}{\f0\fs24  recalls }{\f0\fs24\i1 ben \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u702\'3F}{\f0\fs24\i1\super a}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u7791\'3F\u333\'6Fn\u244\'F4}{\f0\fs24  of Gen. 49:11. Only Mark (11:2) mentions Jesus\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 command to \u8220\'93untie\u8221\'94 the colt. Does this point back in any way to Gen. 49:11, }{\f0\fs24\i1 he hitches}{\f0\fs24  [lit., binds] }{\f0\fs24\i1 to the vine his ass}{\f0\fs24 ?}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.11-12&off=718&ctx=+coat+with+blood.36%0a~If+one+understands+v"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 662). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 13 }{\f0\fs24 The territory of Zebulon (Josh. 19:10\endash 16) did not actually touch the coast of the Mediterranean, nor did it border on Sidon. But if }{\f0\fs24\i1 Sidon}{\f0\fs24  is taken as a collective term for Phoenicia, then the statement is quite apt. The verse may suggest the penetration of the Zebulonites into the Plain of Acco, most likely under the patronage of Canaanite cities in the region (Judg. 1:30). More probably, the }{\f0\fs24\i1 seashore}{\f0\fs24  here is the seashore of Chinnereth/Galilee. The reference to Sidon does not rule this out because \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the W flank of the S Galilee highland, settled by the Zebulunites, actually borders on Phoenician territory in the Plain of Acco.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 I am inclined to read v. 13 not as a curse or judgment leveled at Zebulon because of his vain flirtation with maritime trafficking, but as a word of praise and promise addressed to the tribe. Zebulon will become a conqueror who will extend his territory to the west and to the north. This interpretation is substantiated with post-Joshua references like Judg. 1:30 and Judg. 4\endash 5, especially 5:18, in which Zebulon is praised as one of the two most valiant participants in the fight which Deborah led against the Canaanites.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\i1 Zebulon }{\f0\fs24 is one of three Hebrew tribes (along with Dan and Asher) who are described as navigational.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.13&off=1133&ctx=ions+with+the+sea.6%0a~The+territory+of+Zeb"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 664). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 14-15 }
\par\pard\plain \sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 One may interpret Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s words to Issachar in two possible ways. The prevailing view is that Jacob paints Issachar as a group of people who put creaturely comforts (v. 15a-b) ahead of any other value, and as a result it cost them their independence (v. 15c\endash d). They became serfs to the local Canaanites, i.e., the feudal barons ruling in the Jezreel valley.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 This sin is as old as Adam and Eve. The woman saw that the tree was good for food (}{\f0\fs24\i1 r\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u257\'61\u702\'3F\u225\'E1 k\u238\'EE \u7789\'3F\u244\'F4\u7687\'3F}{\f0\fs24 ), and the Issacharites saw a resting place that was good (}{\f0\fs24\i1 r\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u257\'61\u702\'3F\u225\'E1 k\u238\'EE \u7789\'3F\u244\'F4\u7687\'3F}{\f0\fs24 ). This theme surfaces again in the Sodom and Gomorrah stories, where pandering to lust became epidemic. It also appears in Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s brother Esau. He put the needs of his stomach ahead of the voice of his conscience and paid for it dearly. The hersdmen of Lot (ch. 13) can identify with the choice of Issachar and his progeny.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The basic reason for this majority view is the last phrase of v. 15, }{\f0\fs24\i1 way}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 h\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u238\'EE l}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 mas-\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u703\'3Fo\u7687\'3F\u275\'65\u7695\'3F}{\f0\fs24  (\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93he submitted to forced labor\u8221\'94 [Westermann]; \u8220\'93and he became a willing serf\u8221\'94 [Speiser]).}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.14-15&off=243&ctx=+laboring+worker.%E2%80%9D7%0a~One+may+interpret+Ja"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 667). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 This majority interpretation has sufficient problems to warrant an alternative interpretation of v. 15. For one thing, nowhere does the OT comment on the subjugation of the Issacharites to local power figures. The only possible evidence is extrabiblical (i.e., Amarna text no. 365), but even here this conclusion is only implied and possible. Moreover, when Judg. 1 lists the tribes that did not successfully drive out the local Canaanites (Manasseh, v. 27; Ephraim, v. 29; Zebulon, v. 30; Asher, v. 31; Naphtali, v. 33), some of which were contiguous with Issachar, it does not mention the tribal area of Issachar. Also, the Song of Deborah celebrates Issachar\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s valued contribution in battle (Judg. 5:15). Finally, in Gen. 49, when Jacob clearly says a word of judgment on one of his sons, the reason for the father\u8217\'92s displeasure is explicit (Reuben, v. 4; Simeon and Levi, vv. 5\endash 6). No such qualifying explanation is given with Issachar.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 I have chosen to translate }{\f0\fs24\i1 a laboring worker,}{\f0\fs24  a reading already reflected in LXX\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s \u8220\'93and he became a farmer\u8221\'94 (}{\f0\fs24\i1 ka\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u237\'ED egen\u7703\'3Fth\u275\'65 an\u7703\'3Fr ge\u333\'6Frg\u243\'F3s}{\f0\fs24 )}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.14-15&off=2625&ctx=tion+to+this+usage.%0a~This+majority+interp"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 667\endash 668). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 16-17}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Verse 17 compares Dan to a }{\f0\fs24\i1 serpent}{\f0\fs24  or }{\f0\fs24\i1 viper}{\f0\fs24  who lunges at and bites the hooves of a passing horse, causing the horse to bolt and throw its rider. We have already run across serpent symbolism in Genesis. The first }{\f0\fs24\i1 n\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u257\'61\u7717\'3F\u257\'61\u353\'9A}{\f0\fs24  we encountered was in 3:1, 2, 4, 13, 14. The word }{\f0\fs24\i1 hooves}{\f0\fs24  (lit., \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93heels,\u8221\'94 }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u703\'3Fiqq}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u7687\'3F\u234\'EA}{\f0\fs24 ) is familiar from the Jacob story. In his own way Jacob grabbed the heel of his uterine brother, just as this viper snaps at the heel of the horse. The imagery in 49:17 seems to suggest that Dan, although small, will be quite capable of holding his own. His strength will be greater than his size. As small as he is, he will be able to strike panic into an animal as large as a horse.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.16-17&off=1600&ctx=ut+of+a+simple+one.%0a~Verse+17+compares+Da"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 670). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 18}{\f0\fs24   In the midst of his blessing on his sons Jacob says: }{\f0\fs24\i1 For your saving action I wait, Yahweh.}{\f0\fs24  This statement sounds odd at this point in the poem. It reminds one of Jeremiah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s lament in Jer. 20:7\endash 18. In between a charge against God plus a wish for vengeance on his enemies (vv. 7\endash 12) and a curse on the day of his birth (vv. 14\endash 18), we find this: \u8220\'93Sing to Yahweh; praise Yahweh; for he has delivered the life of the needy from the hand of evildoers\u8221\'94 (v. 13)!}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Freedman understands v. 18 as a liturgical element that breaks the sequence of blessings in the body of the poem.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.18&off=0&ctx=large+as+a+horse.16%0a~18++In+the+midst+of+"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 670\endash 671). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Few consider the statement to be genuinely Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s. But if it is, it is a ringing testimony by the elderly patriarch to his renewed faith in God that he shall one day be delivered by his God and experience eternal salvation. Interestingly, this is the only place in Genesis where any form of the root }{\f0\fs24\i1 y\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u353\'9A\u703\'3F}{\f0\fs24  is used. Although the illustrations of salvation and deliverance are scattered throughout Genesis, only here is the Hebrew word that most clearly means \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93salvation\u8221\'94 used.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.18&off=923&ctx=ity+(vv.+16%2c+18).19+~Few+consider+the+sta"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 671). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 19 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Settled east of the Jordan, Gad had to fight constantly against Ammonite and desert marauders, as is evident from the Jephthah story in Judges (11:1\endash 12:7). In the Song of Deborah (Judg. 5:17) those of Gilead (Gad) are rebuked for remaining on their side of the Jordan (conceivably because they were preoccupied with their own problems at the time) and not coming to the assistance of tribes on the west side of the Jordan. In addition to pressure from the Ammonites, the Gadites also had to deal with the Moabites to the south. In the famous Moabite Stone from the mid-9th century }{\f0\fs24\scaps b.c., }{\f0\fs24 Mesha, king of Moab, claims: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Now the men of Gad had always dwelt in the land of Ataroth, and the king of Israel had built Ataroth for them; but I fought against the town and took it and slew all the people of the town as satiation for Chemosh and Moab.\u8221\'94 This oracle predicts Gad\u8217\'92s ability to bounce back, to retaliate against those who would seek his territory.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.19&off=97&ctx=(at)+their+heels.%E2%80%9D2%0a~Settled+east+of+the+"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 672\endash 673). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Gad is not big enough to engage in frontal warfare. He must attack from the rear (v. 19b). Mobility rather than number is Gad\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s major asset. Vulnerable as the tribe was, especially from the east with the emergence of the kingdom of Ammon, Jacob\u8217\'92s words to Gad are prophetic.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.19&off=1594&ctx=%2c+urban+or+nomadic.%0a~Gad+is+not+big+enoug"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 673). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 20}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Asher is the blessed/happy tribe, evidenced by its agricultural bounty, to which v. 20 alludes. Asher occupies a fertile piece of land (the western slopes of the Galilean highland) and is therefore prosperous. Asher\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s involvement in maritime enterprises (Judg. 5:17) also expanded that prosperity. The first line of the verse praises Asher for the exquisite quality of his culinary products. 1 K. 4:7 speaks of those who were responsible for providing food for Solomon and his household for one month each, and one may ask whether Gen. 49:20 reflects that custom. That is, the tribe of Asher out of its abudance fulfills its responsibility of sharing and providing the royal family with food necessities.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.20&off=93&ctx=royal+delicacies.%E2%80%9D2%0a~Asher+is+the+blessed"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 674). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 One may understand the verse simply as Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s prophecy that Asher and the Asherites will be blessed by God with abundance and prosperity, and will produce food luxuriant and rich enough for royalty.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.20&off=1667&ctx=days+of+the+judges.+~One+may+understand+t"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 674). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 21}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Naphtali, a tribe about which little is known, is praised in Judg. 4:6, 10; 5:18b for its yeoman cooperation with Deborah in her tribe\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s fight with Canaanites. He was willing to abandon the safety of his own highlands in this hilly, wooded Galilean country in support of a vulnerable brother. To the best of our knowledge, this is one of the few areas of Canaan that show no signs of Canaanite occupation. This reference puts the tribe of Naphtali in a good light, and would suggest that Jacob\u8217\'92s word to Naphtali hints at the tribe\u8217\'92s abilities in fighting.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Other references give a different perspective on Naphtali. Thus the Naphtalites were unsuccessful in driving out the people of Beth-shemesh and Ben-anath (Judg. 1:33), although they do subject the indigenous people to forced labor. Earlier, the second census in Numbers (26:48\endash 50) lists a decrease of 8,000 from the first census (Num. 1:42\endash 43), 45,400 versus 53,400. Naphtali is one of five tribes (Reuben, 2,700; Simeon, 37,100; Gad, 5,150; Ephraim, 8,000) to show a decline.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 As a result of the above data, it is difficult to be certain whether Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s blessing on Naphtali is positive or negative.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.21&off=1078&ctx=esticated+(v.+21b).%0a~Naphtali%2c+a+tribe+ab"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 677). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 23}{\f0\fs24   The enemies who attack Joseph may be understood as enemies of Joseph the individual or of Joseph the tribe. If the first, then the reference is to the brothers\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 harsh treatment of Joseph. They certainly tried to make life bitter for Joseph. Note the use of }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u347\'73\u257\'61\u7789\'3Fam}{\f0\fs24  here }{\f0\fs24\i1 (try to do him in)}{\f0\fs24  and in 50:15. What the brothers sought to do to Joseph (49:23) they feared he would do to them or feel about them (50:15). This verb (}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u347\'73\u257\'61\u7789\'3Fam}{\f0\fs24 ) occurs but six times in the OT, and three of them involve Jacob in some way (27:41; 49:23; 50:15).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 If Joseph the tribe is meant, then the reference is harder to determine. One possibility would be the intratribal war involving Ephraim and Benjamin (Judg. 19\endash 21), less likely Ephraim and the men of Gilead (Judg. 12). Also possible is the Ephraimite occupation of Amalekite hill country in the time of the Judges (Judg. 12:15).}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.23&off=0&ctx=+of+a+wild+she-ass.%0a~23++The+enemies+who+"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 684). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 24 }{\f0\fs24 A more faithful and simpler reading of the verse understands it as the thwarted and unsuccessful attempts of Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s attackers to eliminate him; thus \u8220\'93break the bow\u8221\'94 in v. 24 fits best the first sense given above, that of destroying military power.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.24&off=1686&ctx=h%E2%80%9D+(Gen.+49:29).%E2%80%9927+~A+more+faithful+and+"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 685). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 25}{\f0\fs24   Names for deity continue with }{\f0\fs24\i1 the God of your father}{\f0\fs24  and }{\f0\fs24\i1 Shaddai}{\f0\fs24 . If my translation is correct, v. 24b-c described what Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s Lord did to Joseph\u8217\'92s enemies. V. 25 begins to describe what Joseph\u8217\'92s Lord will do for Joseph. He will be both Joseph\u8217\'92s protector (v. 24) and his benefactor (vv. 25\endash 26). The blessings ahead for Joseph include agricultural blessings (v. 25c\endash d) and family blessings (v. 25e).}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.25&off=0&ctx=+is+a+personal+God.%0a~25++Names+for+deity+"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 685). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 26}{\f0\fs24   In conclusion Jacob prays that the blessing of the patriarchs may be upon Joseph. Actually, they are to be }{\f0\fs24\i1 upon Joseph\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s head, on the skull of}{\f0\fs24  }{\f0\fs24\i1 the Nazir.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.26&off=0&ctx=teho%CC%82m%2c+%E2%80%9Cthe+deep.%E2%80%9D%0a~26++In+conclusion+Ja"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 685\endash 686). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 27 Benjamin, Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s last-born, receives Jacob\u8217\'92s last word of blessing. The animal metaphor chosen for Benjamin is not wide of the mark as an apt description of Benjamin\u8217\'92s descendants. He is pictured as a wolf who during the day consumes and divides with his lair the prey he has caught the night before. We saw in Gen. 46 that Benjamin has the most \u8220\'93little ones\u8221\'94 to feed of Jacob\u8217\'92s children. The saying points primarily to a future day when the tribe of Benjamin shall become a predataor, engage in military raids, and realize booty from its victories.}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.27&off=122&ctx=g+dividing+spoil.%E2%80%9D4%0a~Benjamin%2c+Jacob%E2%80%99s+la"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 686\endash 687). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 This characterization seems to be documented in the Benjamite judge Ehud (Judg. 3:15\endash 30), and specifically his successful battle against the Transjordanian Moabites. Note also the description of the tribe of Benjamin in Judg. 20 and the tribe\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s strength in that premonarchical civil war against other tribes. They were able, for a while at least, to hold their own, though vastly outnumbered (Judg. 20:14\endash 21). Later Benjamites had the reputation of being \u8220\'93mighty warriors, bowmen\u8221\'94 (1 Chr. 8:40; 12:2). It is not difficult to understand, therefore, why Israel\u8217\'92s first king should be drawn from the tribe of Benjamin, given its reputation for militancy (1 Sam. 9:1)}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.27&off=673&ctx=from+its+victories.%0a~This+characterizatio"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 687). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 33}{\f0\fs24   Jacob joins those who \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93breathed their last, and then were gathered to their kindred.\u8221\'94 These formulae have been used already with Abraham (25:8), Ishmael (25:17), and with Isaac (35:29). Present with these three, but absent in the note about Jacob\u8217\'92s passing in 49:33, is the verb \u8220\'93died.\u8221\'94 The emphasis is not on dying but on rejoining. He gathered his feet beside him (Qal of }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u702\'3F\u257\'61sap\u772\'AF}{\f0\fs24 ), then }{\f0\fs24\i1 was gathered to his kin}{\f0\fs24  (Niphal of }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u702\'3F\u257\'61sap\u772\'AF}{\f0\fs24 ), after which Joseph (}{\f0\fs24\i1 y\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u244\'F4s\u275\'65p\u772\'AF}{\f0\fs24 ) falls of the neck of his departed father (50:1).}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge49.33&off=0&ctx=no+other+country.%E2%80%9D8%0a~33++Jacob+joins+thos"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 689). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0}