{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1-2}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 As Jacob began to speak, note what happened: his words were not those of a regular conversation. He began to speak in a form of poetry and symbol: he actually began to predict the future of his sons, the future of the twelve tribes of Israel that were to descend from them. God, by His Spirit, enabled Jacob to predict the future of the nation Israel. Why? Why did God want the future of Israel predicted here?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab To encourage Jacob. Jacob was dying, and he had been a great believer who had truly trusted the promises of God. God loved Jacob with a special love, and He wanted to give assurance to Jacob that his faith was not in vain. God wanted Jacob to know that his sons would grow into a great nation that would possess the promised land and bring forth Shiloh, the Savior of the world (see v. 10).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab To warn the sons and their descendents of the weaknesses and traits in their nature. They needed to constantly guard against their weaknesses and strengthen themselves in }{\f0\fs24\i1 the }{\f0\fs24\i1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab To encourage Israel during their Egyptian bondage. Jacob\u8217\'92s prophecy would offer great hope to true believers during their enslavement in Egypt, for the prophecy predicted that they would someday be freed and possess the promised land.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab To show people of all generations that we reap what we sow. God has and will continue to use Jacob\u8217\'92s prophecy to teach this awesome truth: we reap exactly what we have sown. This is clearly seen in Jacob\u8217\'92s sons: the blessing each received was based upon what he had sown upon earth. No doubt, God gave this prophecy to Jacob as a warning to all of us: we must guard against the judgment to come: we must be sure to sow a godly and righteous life upon earth.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge49.1-2&off=522&ctx=r+close+around+him.%0a~As+Jacob+began+to+sp"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 389). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 3-4 Reuben}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 But note the prophecy: Reuben had proven weak and unstable; therefore, he would not excel, neither he nor his tribe (v. 4). Reuben had sinned: he had gone to bed with Bilhah, the servant of his mother (Ge. 35:22). He gave in to lust, to the desires of his flesh, gave in to his passions and urges. Reuben did not have the discipline to control himself. He lacked restraint. He proved incapable of giving leadership to all without abusing some. Therefore, God gave Jacob this prophetic declaration: Reuben would not excel as a tribe.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge49.3-4&off=502&ctx=r+Jacob%E2%80%99s+death.%0ab.+~But+note+the+prophec"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 389\endash 390). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 But the descendents of Reuben failed to do this. The history of Israel shows that the tribe never did excel: the prophecy was proven to be precisely true.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Some of the tribe showed a lack of restraint and leadership when they joined in the rebellion of Korah against Moses (Nu. 16).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab The tribe showed weakness and instability by refusing to fight when they were called to battle (Jud. 5:15f).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab The tribe showed a lack of restraint by being the first to request a place to settle in the promised land. They did not cross the Jordan River with the other tribes but prematurely settled on the east side of the river. The east was far less valuable than the west side (Nu. 32).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab The tribe showed a lack of godly discipline by helping to erect a false place of worship (Jos. 22:10\endash 34).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab The tribe was never important in the history of Israel and never produced a leader of any stature whatsoever for the nation.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Immorality reveals a character flaw within a person. It shows lack of discipline, control, and restraint. It shows the willingness to hurt and cause pain to people, an inability to lead everyone equally. If we sow immorality, we shall reap the judgment of God.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge49.3-4&off=1756&ctx=at+tribe+of+people.%0a~But+the+descendents+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 390). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 5-7 Simeon and Levi}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. The sin of these two brothers was anger, cruelty, and vengeance. They had taken vengeance upon the city of Shechem because the prince had raped their sister, Dinah (Ge. 34:1f). They killed all the males and plundered the city, enslaving the women and children.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 b. Note what Jacob said about their behavior: it was inexcusable. He strongly disapproved of what they had done (v. 6).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 c. Jacob also made a very special pronouncement upon their anger: their anger was to be cursed, for it was cruel and fierce (v. 7).}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge49.5-7&off=112&ctx=ng+Simeon+and+Levi.%0a~a.+The+sin+of+these+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 390). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1)\tab Note that the prophecy happened to the tribe of Simeon just as Jacob had predicted.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab The tribe of Simeon was not given a separate region within the promised land. It was only given land within the midst of Judah\u8217\'92s territory; therefore, Simeon was not allowed to stand alone. The tribe was always controlled by Judah, the strongest tribe of Israel (Jos. 19:1; Jud. 1:3).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab The tribe was entirely passed over at the end of Moses\u8217\'92 life. When he was blessing the tribes, he never mentioned Simeon. The tribe had been completely absorbed by Judah (De. 33).}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 However, some Simeon descendents did seek pasture for their flocks outside Canaan, conquered some land and settled there permanently (1 Chr. 4:38\endash 43). But note: this was outside the promised land.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2)\tab Levi was also judged to be scattered. His tribe was dispersed as priests throughout the land (Jos. 21:1\endash 40). The priests never owned any territory, but they were given homes in forty-eight Levitical cities scattered all over the promised land.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge49.5-7&off=947&ctx=lty%2c+and+vengeance.%0a~1)+Note+that+the+pro"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 390). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24  They produced \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab Moses (book of }{\f0\fs24\i1 Exodus}{\f0\fs24 )}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab Aaron (book of }{\f0\fs24\i1 Exodus}{\f0\fs24 )}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab Phinehas (see Nu. 25)}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab Eli (1 S. 4:12\endash 18)}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab Ezra (book of }{\f0\fs24\i1 Ezra}{\f0\fs24 )}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab John the Baptist (Lu. 1:5)}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge49.5-7&off=2462&ctx=+tribe+except+Judah.~+They+produced+%E2%80%A6%0a%E2%80%A2+M"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 390). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 8-12 Judah}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Consequently, Jacob, under God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s prophetic utterance, passed the birthright not to one son, but to two sons, to both }{\f0\fs24\i1 Judah and Joseph}{\f0\fs24 . Scripture clearly states this:}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Now the sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel, (for he was the firstborn; but, forasmuch as he defiled his father\u8217\'92s bed, his birthright [double portion of the estate] was given unto the sons of Joseph the son of Israel: and the genealogy is not to be reckoned after the birthright. For Judah prevailed above his brethren, and of him came the chief ruler; but the birthright was Joseph\u8217\'92s)\u8221\'94 (1 Chr. 5:1\endash 2)}{\f0\fs24 .}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge49.8-12&off=546&ctx=ad+Simeon+and+Levi.+~Consequently%2c+Jacob%2c"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 391). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Judah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s life is a beautiful picture of a person\u8217\'92s growing into spiritual maturity.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge49.8-12&off=1119&ctx=s)%E2%80%9D+(1+Chr.+5:1%E2%80%932).%0a~Judah%E2%80%99s+life+is+a+be"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 391). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24  The change in his heart and life is seen in three events:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Before his father, he offered himself as surety for Benjamin (see note\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 43:8\endash 10).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Before Joseph, he pleaded and offered his life in the place of Benjamin.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Before the land of Egypt, he was acknowledged as the leader by his father (see note\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 46:28\endash 30).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 It was because of Judah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s clear repentance and conversion as well as the strong leadership he gave to the family that he was chosen to be the leader of the family. Note the prophetic blessing pronounced upon him and his tribe.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. Judah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s tribe was to be praised for military leadership and power (vv. 8\endash 9). His hand would be on the neck of his enemies: he would defeat them, and the other tribes would bow down before him, that is, would follow his leadership in battle.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Judah would be like a lion. The lion is a symbol of courage, strength, and security.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge49.8-12&off=2071&ctx=en+tested+by+Joseph.~+The+change+in+his+h"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 391). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Note these facts about Jesus Christ, the promised seed, the Messiah and Savior of the world.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (1)\tab The New Testament identifies Jesus Christ with this prophecy. Jesus Christ is \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the Lion of the tribe of Judah.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not: behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, hath prevailed to open the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof\u8221\'94 (Re. 5:5)}{\f0\fs24 .}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge49.8-12&off=5892&ctx=ishment+and+health.%0a~Thought+1.+Note+thes"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 392). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 13 Zebulun}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . This was the only tribe that had its territory spelled out in Jacob\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s prophetic blessing. This suggests that Zebulun was to be blessed with a special territory, an area well located for trade and wealth. God was also to bless the tribe of Zebulun with a unique opportunity to serve the other tribes by providing goods for them.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The lesson is clear: God is the source of our blessings. It is He who has set the laws of nature in place, the laws that give us rain, sunshine, seed, growth, and harvest. It is God who has given us life, health, and the ability to work and produce and to know purpose and fulfillment. All that we have is due to God. We must, therefore, serve Him, using our blessings wisely. We must do what Zebulun was to do: use what we have to serve and help those who are around us. We must become a center of service, a center for helping all those who surround us.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge49.13&off=794&ctx=s+to+their+people.2%0a~Thought+1.+This+was+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 393). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 14-15 Issachar}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The idea is that the tribe of Issachar was to be a strong and sturdy tribe of people. The prophecy, of course, proved true.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab The tribe rose up and courageously fought for Deborah and Barak when other tribes refused to help (Jud. 5:15\endash 18).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab The tribe was to grow and provide 87,000 men for the military during the rule of Israel\u8217\'92s kings (1 Chr. 7:5).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 However, Issachar had one trait that proved to be a terrible weakness, a trait that its people needed to guard against: that of lethargy and complacency (v. 15). There was the danger that the tribe\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s primary objective in life would become comfort, ease, prosperity, and rest. In fact, note what the prophecy predicted: the people would become so comfortable and satisfied that they would be more willing to be enslaved than to risk the comforts of life (v. 15).}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Complacency, lethargy, comfort, and being at ease are enemies of our souls. They destroy ambition, drive, initiative, production, work, even life itself.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge49.14-15&off=292&ctx=+that+day+and+time.+~The+idea+is+that+the"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 393\endash 394). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 16-17}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Dan}{\f0\fs24 : there was the prophecy concerning Da. The tribe was to produce capable rulers. The name }{\f0\fs24\i1 Dan}{\f0\fs24  means to judge or to administer justice. The thought is that the judges of Dan would rule their tribe well. The most well-known judge of Dan was Samson (Jud. 13\endash 16).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The second prophecy concerning Dan was that the tribe was to be just like a snake, be a deadly opponent for its enemies. Samson is again the most well-known leader of Dan who single-handedly defeated the foes of Israel. H.C. Leupold suggests that Jacob may be giving a warning by comparing Dan to a serpent: that the tribe must always be on guard against treachery, double-dealing, and dishonesty.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 This, in fact, was to prove true. Dan was the first tribe to take up idol worship in Israel, the first to be dishonest and pull a double deal against God. They proved to be a treacherous and double-dealing people toward God. Some commentators suggest this could be the reason why the tribe of Dan is omitted from the numbering of the 144,000 saints in Re. 7:5\endash 8 and from the tribes listed in 1 Chr. 1\endash 7. However, there is no Scriptural evidence that this is the reason for their omission in the two lists. The tribe is listed in more than sixteen other chronologies of the Bible.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . God warns us against idolatry, against putting the things of this world before Him. Idols include \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab the gods and false religions of this world}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab the people whom we put before God, whom we idolize and give our allegiance}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab the possessions, property, positions, and pleasures that consume our lives and leave no room for the worship and service of the true God of heaven and earth}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge49.16-17&off=13&ctx=+3:5).%0a7+(49:16%E2%80%9317)+~Dan:+there+was+the+p"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 394). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 19 Gad}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Gad\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Guidance}{\f0\fs24 : there was the prophecy concerning Gad. This tribe was to be surrounded by the nomadic tribes of the Midianites, Ammonites, and Arabians\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 roving marauders from the desert. But Gad was to be a tribe who would be successful in struggling against his enemy. The idea is that he would never give up no matter the strength of his enemy. He would struggle and fight until at last he overcame. Therefore, he would know the glory of victory (see 1 Chr. 5:18; 12:8)}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge49.19&off=10&ctx=o.+6:23).%0a9+(49:19)+~Gad%E2%80%94Guidance:+there+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 395). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 20 Asher}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Asher apparently became an indulgent tribe of people, given over to the wealth and luxury they enjoyed. The name }{\f0\fs24\i1 Asher}{\f0\fs24  means happy, lucky, or fortunate. They inherited some of the best land, but during the days of the judges, the people were swallowed up by the luxury of wealth. They just refused to help the other tribes in fighting against the enemies of Israel. They were too caught up in the worldly pleasures, bright lights, and comforts of this earth to worry about the needs of brothers under attack on some far away border (Jud. 5:17\endash 18).}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Scripture warns against worldliness, against becoming too attached to the luxury, pleasures, bright lights, and greed of this earth. True believers are to live separated lives, lives that are different\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 drastically different\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 from the worldly of this earth.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge49.20&off=477&ctx=:24%2c+see+1+K.+4:7).%0a~Asher+apparently+bec"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 396). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 22-26 Joseph}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 d. But Joseph will not only be strengthened against his enemies; he will be richly blessed with three things:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab with the blessings of heavenly rain and fertile soil (v. 25}{\f0\fs24\super b}{\f0\fs24 ).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab with the blessings of springs and streams (v. 25}{\f0\fs24\super b}{\f0\fs24 ).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab with the blessings of many offspring or descendents (v. 25}{\f0\fs24\super c}{\f0\fs24 ).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 e. But even that is not all: Joseph was to be blessed above all his brothers (v. 26). Jacob declared that he had been blessed above his own fathers, Abraham and Isaac. Therefore Joseph, as the recipient of the birthright, was to be blessed above all his brothers. Jacob actually called out for his own great blessings to rest upon the head of Joseph, for the great blessings he had known to be experienced by Joseph.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . The blessings that God pours out upon His true follower are unlimited. To stir thought, just a few are listed here.}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge49.22-26&off=8088&ctx=inst+their+enemies.%0a~d.+But+Joseph+will+n"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 398). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24}