{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs36\b1 50\~}{\f0\fs24 Then Joseph fell on his father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s face and wept over him and kissed him. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 2\~}{\f0\fs24 And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his father. So the physicians embalmed Israel. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 3\~}{\f0\fs24 Forty days were required for it, for that is how many are required for embalming. And the Egyptians wept for him seventy days. }
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 4\~}{\f0\fs24 And when the days of weeping for him were past, Joseph spoke to the household of Pharaoh, saying, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93If now I have found favor in your eyes, please speak in the ears of Pharaoh, saying, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 5\~}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91My father made me swear, saying, \u8220\'93I am about to die: in my tomb that I hewed out for myself in the land of Canaan, there shall you bury me.\u8221\'94 Now therefore, let me please go up and bury my father. Then I will return.\u8217\'92\~\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 6\~}{\f0\fs24 And Pharaoh answered, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Go up, and bury your father, as he made you swear.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 7\~}{\f0\fs24 So Joseph went up to bury his father. With him went up all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his household, and all the elders of the land of Egypt, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 8\~}{\f0\fs24 as well as all the household of Joseph, his brothers, and his father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s household. Only their children, their flocks, and their herds were left in the land of Goshen. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 9\~}{\f0\fs24 And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen. It was a very great company. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 10\~}{\f0\fs24 When they came to the threshing floor of Atad, which is beyond the Jordan, they lamented there with a very great and grievous lamentation, and he made a mourning for his father seven days. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 11\~}{\f0\fs24 When the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the mourning on the threshing floor of Atad, they said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93This is a grievous mourning by the Egyptians.\u8221\'94 Therefore the place was named Abel-mizraim; it is beyond the Jordan. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 12\~}{\f0\fs24 Thus his sons did for him as he had commanded them, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 13\~}{\f0\fs24 for his sons carried him to the land of Canaan and buried him in the cave of the field at Machpelah, to the east of Mamre, which Abraham bought with the field from Ephron the Hittite to possess as a burying place. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 14\~}{\f0\fs24 After he had buried his father, Joseph returned to Egypt with his brothers and all who had gone up with him to bury his father. }
\par\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s Good Purposes}
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 15\~}{\f0\fs24 When Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, \u8220\'93It may be that Joseph will hate us and pay us back for all the evil that we did to him.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 16\~}{\f0\fs24 So they sent a message to Joseph, saying, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Your father gave this command before he died: }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 17\~}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Say to Joseph, \u8220\'93Please forgive the transgression of your brothers and their sin, because they did evil to you.\u8221\'94\~\u8217\'92 And now, please forgive the transgression of the servants of the God of your father.\u8221\'94 Joseph wept when they spoke to him. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 18\~}{\f0\fs24 His brothers also came and fell down before him and said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Behold, we are your servants.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 19\~}{\f0\fs24 But Joseph said to them, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Do not fear, for am I in the place of God? }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 20\~}{\f0\fs24 As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good, to bring it about that many people should be kept alive, as they are today. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 21\~}{\f0\fs24 So do not fear; I will provide for you and your little ones.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 Thus he comforted them and spoke kindly to them. }
\par\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 The Death of Joseph}
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 22\~}{\f0\fs24 So Joseph remained in Egypt, he and his father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s house. Joseph lived 110 years. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 23\~}{\f0\fs24 And Joseph saw Ephraim\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s children of the third generation. The children also of Machir the son of Manasseh were counted as Joseph\u8217\'92s own. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 24\~}{\f0\fs24 And Joseph said to his brothers, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I am about to die, but God will visit you and bring you up out of this land to the land that he swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 25\~}{\f0\fs24 Then Joseph made the sons of Israel swear, saying, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93God will surely visit you, and you shall carry up my bones from here.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 26\~}{\f0\fs24 So Joseph died, being 110 years old. They embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ge50&off=3074"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ge 50). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}