{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ri0\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 v.2}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The Egyptian verb for \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93embalm\u8221\'94 is, as noted above, wt. In the medical literature of Egypt this verb has another meaning. It may be used to describe wrapping the mummy in bandages. The Egyptian medical profession adopted this word as a way of saying \u8220\'93bind up with a bandage\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93wrap with a poultice.\u8221\'94 The noun designates a \u8220\'93binder [of wounds].\u8221\'94 Applied to Gen. 50:2, it is possible to see that in the sense they were \u8220\'93bandagers,\u8221\'94 the morticians who embalmed Jacob could be called physicians.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 3 It took the embalmers forty days (a frequently used biblical number) to complete their work. Interestingly, the Egyptians mourned him for seventy days. More than likely this is not seventy more days after the completion of the embalming. Rather, the period of mourning extends beyond the embalming process by thirty days.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 5 Joseph repeats the oath that he made to Jacob (s\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u780\'3Fa\u772\'AFb\u817\'5Fa\u703\'3F is used in 47:31 and 50:5). }
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 6}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Thus Joseph is party to two promises\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 a promise to his father to bury him in Canaan, and a promise to his superior not to use this family matter as a means of permanently leaving Egypt. In his answer to Joseph\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s request, Pharaoh repeats Joseph\u8217\'92s words with Go and inter your father as he placed you under oath, and he stops there.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 7-9}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Three different groups participate in Jacob\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s funeral procession: (1) high-ranking members of Pharaoh\u8217\'92s bureaucracy, v. 7; (2) male survivors of Jacob\u8217\'92s family, v. 8 (what of Leah and his concubines\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 are they still living?); (3) a military escort, v. 9.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 10}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Seven days was the normal period for mourning (see 1 Sam. 31:13 par. 1 Chr. 10:12; 2 Sam. 11:27; Job 2:13; Jdt. 16:24; Sir. 10:12)}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The site Goren-ha-atad is unidentifiable. This is the only place in the OT where it is mentioned.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Gemser has made a strong case for reading be\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u703\'3Fe\u772\'AFb\u817\'5Fer hayyarde\u772\'AFn as in the region of the Jordan, and the phrase is comparable to \u703\'3Fal-pene\u770\'5E (in the vicinity of) in v. 13. This interpretation allows for a location of Goren-ha-atad on either side of the Jordan. Thus it is incorrect to say that a sixth-century a.d. mosaic map at Medeba indicating an Alon Atad (\u8220\'93terebinth of Atad\u8221\'94) near Beth Agla, between Jericho and the Dead Sea, cannot be the Atad of Gen. 50:10, 11, for \u8220\'93it is on the wrong side of the Jordan.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 11}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Upon seeing this ritual, the residents state: How grievously the Egyptians are mourning! Moved by this scene, they rename the vicinity Abelmizraim, thus providing another instance of etiological narrative in Genesis.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 13\endash 14  The sons carry out their father\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s last wish. They bury him in the cave of Machpelah where Jacob\u8217\'92s father, and grandfather, and one of his wives (Leah) are buried. Thus Jacob leaves one part of his family and joins another part of his family. Perhaps the recall of Abraham\u8217\'92s purchase of this real estate from Ephron the Hittite (see Gen. 23) is prompted by the use of the word \u702\'3Fah\u803\'3Fuzza\u769\'B4 (\u8220\'93burial site\u8221\'94)}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 15 }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 saw means something like, \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93when the full reality of their father\u8217\'92s passing dawned on them.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Their suspicion is that Joseph will loathe them. The Joseph narrative started with the brothers hating him (s\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u769\'B4a\u772\'AFne\u772\'AF\u702\'3F, 37:4, 5, 8). At the end of the narrative the tables are turned, and they think Joseph will hate them (s\u769\'B4a\u772\'AFt\u803\'3Fam). Their hatred for Joseph is real, but Joseph\u8217\'92s hatred of them is only imaginary.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 16  }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Rather than face Joseph directly, the brothers send a message to him. Writing letters and sending messages, rather than facing one\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s foe directly, is one way to avoid direct confrontation with one\u8217\'92s adversary. David did this (2 Sam. 11:14, 15), and so did Jezebel (1 K. 21:9) and Jehu (2 K. 10:1, 6).}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The closest parallel to Joseph\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s brothers sending a message to Joseph, rather than going themselves, is to be found with Jacob sending messengers with a message to Esau (Gen. 32:4ff. [Eng. 3ff.]).}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The closest parallel to Joseph\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s brothers sending a message to Joseph, rather than going themselves, is to be found with Jacob sending messengers with a message to Esau (Gen. 32:4ff. [Eng. 3ff.]).}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 17  The thrust of the message that they send to Joseph is that Jacob, before he died, left parting instructions that Joseph was to forgive the crime and sin that his brothers had committed against Joseph }
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 19}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The past is water over the dam as far as Joseph is concerned. What he does do is attempt to allay their fears with his Do not be afraid (lit., \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93fear not\u8221\'94). He does not upbraid them for asking for reconciliation. There is no \u8220\'93ask not,\u8221\'94 but rather \u8220\'93fear not.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 LXX has Joseph saying to his brothers: \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93You need have no fear of retribution, for I have God\u8217\'92s view of things, and am therefore above retaliation.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Joseph leaves his question dangling. It could have been extended to say: \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Am I in God\u8217\'92s place to impose retribution? Vengeance is Yahweh\u8217\'92s. He will repay, if necessary\u8221\'94 (cf. Deut. 32:35; Rom. 11:19).}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 While the phrase tah\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u803\'3Fat\u817\'5F \u702\'3Fe\u774\'3Flo\u772\'AFhi\u770\'5Em is not explicit in the text, it is implicit in the serpent\u8217\'92s question to Eve. In essence, he tantalizes her with, \u8220\'93Would you like to be in God\u8217\'92s place?\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93Would you like to be your own God?\u8221\'94 There is a considerable contrast between Adam and Eve and Joseph. Genesis begins by telling us about a primeval couple who tried to become like God, and ends by telling us about a man who denied he was in God\u8217\'92s place. Adam and Eve attempted to wipe out the dividing line between humanity and deity. Joseph refuses to try to cross that line. Joseph will only be God\u8217\'92s instrument, never his substitute.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 20}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The text reads literally, \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93You planned [or \u8216\'91reckoned,\u8217\'92 or did\u8217\'92] against me evil; God planned [or \u8216\'91did\u8217\'92] it for good.\u8221\'94 That is, the second occurrence of h\u803\'3Fa\u772\'AFs\u780\'3Fab\u817\'5F (now with God as the subject) has a pronominal suffix (3rd fem. sing.) attached to it. The antecedent for \u8220\'93it\u8221\'94 can only be ra\u772\'AF\u703\'3Fa\u769\'B4 or an implied mah\u803\'3Fas\u780\'3Fa\u772\'AFb\u817\'5Fa\u769\'B4. It appears then, that Joseph states that God took the evil his brothers planned against him and turned it into good.\line What is this good? The last part of v. 20 answers that question: the survival of many people. We cannot be certain who is meant by many people (\u703\'3Fam-ra\u772\'AFb\u817\'5F). To be sure, it includes Jacob\u8217\'92s family.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Because of God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s providential turning of sour events into divinely used events in the life of one man, the chosen survive, and the unchosen survive. God sends his blessings on the just and the unjust (Matt. 5:45).}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 the theme of a beneficent divine plan at work through calamity and confusion is by no means confined to Gen. 50:20. One thinks of Daniel, Esther, Ruth, and many others who illustrate the same theme.\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Perhaps the best parallel to Gen. 50:20 is the case of Judas Iscariot in the NT. He is both evil and important (much as there are others who are good and important). In lifting up his heel against his friend, Judas is marked as the archetypal traitor. He}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Is additionally a figure of sinister importance in the working out of the divine will. Judas is to Jesus what Joseph\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s brothers were to Joseph.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 21}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The famine is probably over, but Joseph continues to be his family\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s \u8220\'93keeper\u8221\'94 long after the famine. His concern for his family does not stop with the lifting of the famine. Finally, the narrator adds his own comment about Joseph\u8217\'92s ministry to his family (v. 21b).}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 22  Joseph lives for 110 years. The first seventeen of those were lived in Canaan. The last ninety-three are lived in Egypt. We do know at what age any of his brothers died, and whether they outlived Joseph or died before he did.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 23  This verse precedes chronologically v. 22. It informs us that Joseph lived long enough to see his great-grandchildren through Ephraim. According to Job 42:16, Job lived to see four generations. To see one\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s (grand)children is the crowning joy of a full life (Ps. 128:6; Prov. 17:6; Isa. 53:10).}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Machir means \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93one who is sold.\u8221\'94 ma\u772\'AFk\u817\'5Far is the verb used to describe what happened to Joseph (37:28; 45:5). In a sense Joseph was Machir (i.e., \u8220\'93sold\u8221\'94).}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 24 He speaks to his brothers (all of them?). Although he is the second youngest of thirteen children, some of his siblings may outlive him.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Joseph\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s last words to his family are a testimony: God will surely come to your assistance [lit., \u8220\'93visit,\u8221\'94 pa\u772\'AFqad\u817\'5F], and bring you up from this land to the land that he promised on oath to Abraham, to Isaac, to Jacob (i.e., his great-grandfather, grandfather, and father). There is not a hint that God will give the land to }
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Joseph\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s family because of any merits they have. The land is theirs because of divine grace and promise only. Gen. 50:24 is much like Deut. 6:10, \u8220\'93And when the Lord your God brings you into the land which he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.\u8230\'85\u8221\'94 This kind of verse is more striking in Deuteronomy than it is in Genesis. Deuteronomy, we recall, brims with the teaching that land acquisition is a reward, a blessing for obedience. But is this always the case? Deut. 6:10 suggests there are other explanations\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 unmitigated grace and promise, for example.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 25 His request is much like that of his father (49:29\endash 32). He too wants to be buried in his native land. Jacob made his request with s\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u803\'3Fa\u772\'AFwa\u769\'B4 (\u8220\'93instructed, ordered\u8221\'94). Joseph uses a stronger verb (s\u780\'3Fa\u772\'AFb\u817\'5Fa\u703\'3F, \u8220\'93to put under oath, swear\u8221\'94),}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1}