{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ri0\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 1-13}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Joseph then proclaimed his father\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s faith (vv. 4\endash 13). The outline of what Joseph did pictures the point for us.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 4) Joseph completed his father\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s faith: he buried him in the promised land of Canaan (v. 10). Note that they mourned for seven days after reaching the burial site in the promised land.\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 5) Joseph demonstrated the greatness of his father\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s faith publicly: the grieving was so intense that the Canaanites symbolized the mourning (v. 11). They began to call the valley Abel Mizraim, the meadow of the Egyptians.\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 6) Joseph led the family in acknowledging and fulfilling their father\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s faith (vv. 12\endash 13). Joseph and his brothers\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Jacob\u8217\'92s sons\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 now took over the funeral procession. They buried their father just as he had requested: in Canaan, in the cave of Machpelah, the very cave that Abraham had bought (v. 10).}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The point is this: Joseph followed God to the very end. No matter what he may have wanted, no matter what he personally desired, Joseph went about his duties. He arose from grieving over his father and he conquered the sorrow and trial of his father\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s death. He conquered this trial just as he had conquered all the trials that had confronted him throughout life.\line Thought 1. We must follow the example of Joseph. We must follow God to the very end of life. We all face trials in \u8230\'85\line \bullet  work\line \bullet  family\line \bullet  finances\line \bullet  business\line \bullet  school}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 relationships\line Some of us face terrible trials and sorrow. But we must not let the crisis hurt and defeat us. We must arise, get up, and go about our duties, conquering the sorrows and trials of life.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Joseph kept a forgiving spirit\line a. The brothers, realizing their father was dead, feared that Joseph might seek vengeance\line 15 And when Joseph\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s brethren saw that their father was dead, they said, Joseph will peradventure hate us, and will certainly requite us all the evil which we did unto him.\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Nagging questions began to arise in the thoughts of the brothers:\line \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8658\'3F Had Joseph really forgiven them?\line \u8658\'3F How could a person forgive so terrible a wrong? Joseph was only human after all.\line \u8658\'3F How deeply was Joseph committed to God? Enough to forgive the worst evil imaginable?\line \u8658\'3F Was Joseph really committed to the family of Israel? Committed to the promised seed and people of God? Was he committed enough so that he would not harm them but help them survive and return to the promised land?}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 b. The brothers sent a message to Joseph: Claimed the message was their father\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s wish\line 16 And they sent a messenger unto Joseph, saying, Thy father did command before he died, saying,\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 1) The father wanted the sons to ask Joseph to forgive their sin against him\line 2) The brothers asked Joseph to forgive them\line 3) Joseph wept when he heard the message\line 17 So shall ye say unto Joseph, Forgive, I pray thee now, the trespass of thy brethren, and their sin; for they did unto thee evil: and now, we pray thee, forgive the trespass of the servants of the God of thy father. And Joseph wept when they spake unto him.\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 c. The brothers themselves went to Joseph: Offered themselves as his servants\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 d. Joseph kept his forgiving spirit }
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 d. But note Joseph\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s response: he would not accept their offer to be his servants. He would keep his forgiving spirit. He had forgiven his brothers years before, over seventeen years earlier. He had never gone back on his promise of forgiveness (vv. 19\endash 21). Joseph had truly forgiven. This meant that he had asked God to give him God\u8217\'92s very own spirit of forgiveness. What is God\u8217\'92s spirit of forgiveness?\line \u8658\'3F Once forgiven, always forgiven.\line There is no other forgiveness, not true forgiveness. True forgiveness does just that: it forgives once and for all. The old sin or wrong is never brought up again. It cannot be, not if it has been truly forgiven.\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Of course, this is difficult to accept, especially if we are the guilty party upon whom vengeance can fall. This was the problem the brothers were having. They were not sure that Joseph had truly forgiven them. But Joseph wanted to assure them: he had forgiven them, and he had kept on forgiving them. He could do nothing less, for he was following God to the end. And God demands that we forgive, forgive once and for all. Note how Joseph sought to convince his brothers of his forgiveness.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s place to judge, not his. He was, therefore, leaving the judgment up to God.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 18 And his brethren also went and fell down before his face; and they said, Behold, we be thy servants.\line 19 And Joseph said unto them, Fear not: for am I in the place of God?\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 2) God overrules man\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s evil and uses it for good\line 20 But as for you, ye thought evil against me; but God meant it unto good, to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save much people alive.\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Joseph declared that God had overruled their evil and worked it out for good (v. 20). This was the same declaration Joseph had made to his brothers seventeen years earlier. He had seen God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s hand taking all the terrible circumstances of his life and working them out for good. God had used all the terrible trials to strengthen him and to teach him to endure and to work hard. Thus God was able to exalt Joseph to be the ruler of Egypt so that he could save the world of his day from utter catastrophe. God had used Joseph to save the world, but especially His people, Israel, the believers of the earth; to save them from total economic collapse and starvation due to the seven-year famine that had struck the known world of that day.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 3) One must repay evil with good: He promised to take care of his brothers & assured them}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Joseph declared that he must repay evil with good (v. 21). He must do exactly what Scripture says we must do:\line \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good\u8221\'94 (Ro. 12:21).\line Joseph encouraged his brothers not to fear: he was going to provide for them and their families. Note how he did all he could to reassure his brothers. He spoke only kind and comforting words to them (v. 21\u65279\'3Fb).}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Thought 1. What a dynamic example of forgiving others! If Joseph could forgive his brothers, we can forgive any person for anything. No matter how terrible the wrong or evil done against us, we can forgive the person. In fact, we must. God demands that we forgive them.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Joseph hung on to the great promises of God even as he faced death. we hang on to the great promises of God, never letting go. When Joseph was 110 years old, he faced death. }
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Obviously, his brothers had been called to his bedside. How many of them were still living is unknown; Scripture just does not say, but some were still living. When they arrived, three significant events happened.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 a. Joseph declared the deliverance of Israel from Egypt; that they would inherit the promised land}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 1) Joseph declared that God was going to visit Israel; that is, He was going to look after them and take care of them (v. 24). God was going to see that Israel survived no matter what trials and afflictions might come their way.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 2) Joseph declared that God was going to deliver Israel out of Egypt and take them back to the promised land (v. 24\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u65279\'3Fb). Imagine, Joseph had been living out of the promised land for over 90 years. Yet, here he was declaring his faith in the great promises of God. This possibly could be considered a prophecy by Joseph, but more likely it is just a strong declaration of his faith.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Now, note what Joseph did. It was very significant, so significant that Joseph demanded an oath from his brothers. He made them swear that they would carry his bones back to the promised land when they returned (v. 25). This was one of the greatest declarations of faith in the promises of God ever made by a person. Remember: it was to be four hundred years before Joseph\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s bones could be buried in Canaan}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 By faith Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel; and gave commandment concerning his bones\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8221\'94 (He. 11:22).\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The request of Joseph was to be fulfilled. Israel took his bones with them when they returned to the promised land. Moses himself took the bones of Joseph out of Egypt (Ex. 13:19), and some years later his bones were buried at Shechem, buried in a tract of land that Jacob had bought (Jos. 24:32).}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1}