{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-BoldMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ri0\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 2}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b1\i0\ul\ulc0\cf1 embalm}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 . See also 50:26. Egyptians embalmed the honored dead to assist the afterlife journey. The Israelites did not embalm bodies, since they did not hold that conviction. Rather, they insisted that a corpse be handled properly because it was important especially for the living that the deceased rested peacefully in the grave until their resurrection (see Theological Reflections below). Joseph embalms his father to give him dignity and to prepare his corpse to make the extended journey to the Promised Land, the hope of Israel.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 3. forty days \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8230\'85 seventy days. Probably, but not necessarily, these days overlapped. }
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Jewish law to the present time requires a thirty-day mourning period after burial \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8230\'85 for close relatives, during which various restrictions are observed.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 the Egyptians mourned. Not surprisingly, the whole nation mourns the father of their Hebrew savior (see 47:25).\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 seventy days. They were the days of mourning for an Egyptian king.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 7}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 All.\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8230\'85 The narrator underscores the grand size of the funeral cort\u232\'E8ge. The Egyptian funeral retinue includes Joseph, the leading Egyptian officials, all the senior dignitaries from Pharaoh\u8217\'92s court and the empire (50:7), and an army of chariots and charioteers. Accompanying them are all of Joseph\u8217\'92s household and of Jacob\u8217\'92s household (50:8), except the children and animals. The funeral procession occurs in two stages: the great cort\u232\'E8ge proceeds to Atad, and there they stop for seven days of mourning.\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 dignitaries. The Hebrew is literally \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93senior officials.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 10}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Atad. The sixth century a.d. Madeba mosaic map locates an Alon Atad (terebinth of Atad) near Beth Agla (Beth Hogla\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 modern Deir Hajlah) between Jericho and the Dead Sea. Is Jacob in his death showing his descendants the road to the Promised Land?}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 a seven-day period of mourning. This is in addition to the royal mourning in Egypt. Seven days, a full cycle of days, is the usual period of time to express great grief in Israel and in the ancient Near East (cf. 1 Sam. 31:13; Job 2:13; Ezek. 3:15). It is already attested in the Gilgamesh Epic. It may express the rite of passage, like seven days from birth to circumcision (Gen. 17:12), the rite of marriage (29:27), or the rite of consecration to priesthood (Lev. 8:33).}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Abel Mizraim. The name involves a pun. Hebrew \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u702\'3Fe\u772\'AFb\u817\'5Fel means \u8220\'93mourning,\u8221\'94 and \u702\'3Fa\u772\'AFb\u817\'5Fe\u772\'AFl means \u8220\'93brook,\u8221\'94 but only as the first part of a Canaanite place name (e.g., 2 Sam. 20:14, 15; Judg. 11:33; 2 Chron. 16:4). Hence the name means \u8220\'93brook of Egypt,\u8221\'94 a play with \u8220\'93mourning of Egypt.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 15. saw that their father was dead. Realizing their vulnerability before their powerful brother without the restraining authority of their father before whom he bows, they act in fear of Joseph, not in faith. They are not yet rid of their guilt, in spite of Joseph\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s earlier assurances (45:1\endash 15).}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 holds a grudge. Their fear is based on their uneasy consciences, not on Joseph\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s behavior. He has given them no reason to think that he is vindictive.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 16}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Your father. They know from experience that Joseph accedes to his father\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s authority in family matters. They hope he will respect Jacob\u8217\'92s instructions to forgive them even as he acceded to the burial instructions.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 17}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Joseph wept. He weeps for the second time in this scene: first for his father (50:1), then for his brothers. He probably weeps because, after seventeen years of kindness to them that reinforced his original forgiveness of them (45:7\endash 8), they still misunderstand his goodness and think that he will at last take his revenge (see \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Characterization\u8221\'94 in Literary Analysis of Book 10, Act 4).}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 19}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Am I in the place of God? This is how they seem to regard him (cf. 50:17\endash 18). The rhetorical question expects a negative answer (cf. 30:2). He is only God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s instrument, not his surrogate. Moreover, only God could use their evil to do good. Joseph directs their attention away from himself to the sovereign God who rules their history. He is aware of the limits of his authority.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 20}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 God intended it for good. God transformed the brothers\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92 evil intentions and actions to kill into his good intentions and actions to save life. Hence, there is no need for Joseph to hold a grudge. However, if they had not repented, they would still have been under divine wrath. Judas Iscariot also served God\u8217\'92s purpose (1 Cor. 2:8), but it would have been better for him had he never been born (Matt. 26:24).}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Providence\line God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s beneficent blessings come about through his sovereignty. The major theme of Book 10, God\u8217\'92s providence, finds classic expression in 50:20. G. von Rad says, \u8220\'93The statement about the brothers\u8217\'92 evil plans and God\u8217\'92s good plans now opens up the inmost mystery of the Joseph story. It is in every respect, along with the similar passage in ch. 45:5\endash 7, the climax to the whole. Even where no man could imagine it, God had all the strings in his hand.\u8221\'94 Brueggemann adds, \u8220\'93[T]hey could not see that in the midst of their scheme was another plan about which none of them knew, a plan hidden but sure in its work.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Burial, immortality and resurrection }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The Israelites were certainly concerned with proper burial practices (2 Sam. 1:11\endash 17; 3:31; Isa. 14:19; Jer. 8:1\endash 3; 16:1\endash 9; Ezek. 24:15\endash 17). Even sacred burial signified holy life with God.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Other texts explicitly teach the everlasting relationship of the pious with their God: they will know joy and eternal pleasures at God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s right hand (Ps. 16:11); the grave cannot rob them of life in God\u8217\'92s presence (Ps. 17:15; 73:24); they will dwell forever in his house (Ps. 23:6). Proverbs declares that righteousness delivers from death (Prov. 10:2) and that immortality is found on the path of righteousness (Prov. 12:28), and so even in death the righteous seek refuge in the Lord (Prov. 14:32).}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Although the doctrine of immortality and resurrection at the end of history is only brought into full light by the resurrection of Christ (cf. 2 Tim. 1:10), some Old Testament texts already anticipate that resurrection of the dead will liberate the bodies of the righteous from the grave (Job 19:25\endash 27; Isa. 26:19; Dan. 12:1\endash 3). No human being can redeem another from Sheol, the common fate of both the wise and fools (Ps. 49:7, 10), but \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93God will redeem my life from the Sheol,\u8221\'94 says the psalmist, \u8220\'93he will surely take me to himself\u8221\'94 (Ps. 49:15).}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 The dead lie sleeping in their tombs; at the moment of resurrection, they will rise up again (Heb. q\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u251\'FBm: 2 Kings 13:21; Isa. 26:14, 19; Job 14:12).\u8230\'85 The dead are sleeping now; they will be awakened (2 Kings 4:31; Isa. 26:19; Job 14:12; Dan. 12:2) and, finally, they will come back to life (1 Kings 17:22; 2 Kings 13:21; Isa. 26:14, 19; Ezek. 37:3, 5\endash 6, 9\endash 10, 14; Job 14:14).}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 23}
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Makir. This is the most important clan of Manasseh, even identified with the whole tribe. The name, which means \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93one who is sold,\u8221\'94 is probably a word play with the life of Joseph.\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 on Joseph\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s knees. See 30:3 and 48:12. As Jacob adopted Joseph\u8217\'92s sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, Joseph now adopts Manasseh\u8217\'92s son, Makir.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 24. to his brothers. The word may mean \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93relatives.\u8221\'94 If it means \u8220\'93brothers\u8221\'94 in the strict sense, then some or all of his older brothers outlive him.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 24. to his brothers. The word may mean \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93relatives.\u8221\'94 If it means \u8220\'93brothers\u8221\'94 in the strict sense, then some or all of his older brothers outlive him.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 come to your aid. The book ends with the expectation of God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s visitation.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 take you up out of this land. This is a technical phrase for the Exodus from Egypt (see Gen. 15:13\endash 14). Joseph speaks as a prophet, perhaps informed by God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s promise to Abraham.\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 the land he promised. The theme of the patriarchs is on Joseph\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s lips at death. The land is a divine gift to the elect family.\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. For the first time the three patriarchs are mentioned together; that era has passed, but not its hope.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Covenant Blessings\line The covenant themes of Genesis\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 blessing, seed, and land\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 continue through this final scene of the book. This closing scene of Genesis is about God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s blessing on his chosen people through the generations. Joseph\u8217\'92s genealogy to the third generation features God\u8217\'92s faithfulness to give seed.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Also, that blessing is poured on the head of the covenant partner who in spite of great wrongs done against him remained loyal to God and Israel. He expresses his loyalties by prophesying that God will bring Israel back to the land promised to the patriarchs and by instructing his family to bury him in that land. \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93By faith Joseph, when his end was near, spoke about the exodus of the Israelites from Egypt and gave instructions about his bones\u8221\'94 (Heb. 11:22). The similarity of the deaths of Jacob and Joseph, both having died in Egypt but being buried in the sworn land, unites Joseph\u8217\'92s generation with the patriarchs. The covenant-keeping God showers blessings on those who keep the faith of the fathers}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s Intervention\line Throughout Israel\u8217\'92s history, God intervenes to deliver his people. To each generation, he reveals his sovereignty and the hope of deliverance. God reveals to Abraham Israel\u8217\'92s afflictions in Egypt, and to Joseph, the promise of rescue. A fuller visitation of God\u8217\'92s aid comes in the birth of Jesus Christ (see Luke 1:68), and the New Testament ends with the expectation of his visitation from heaven when all believers will experience their final exodus from death and this world to meet their Lord (see Rev. 22:20).\line }
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1}