{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 Joseph Tests His Brothers}
\par\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs36\b1 44\~}{\f0\fs24 Then he commanded the steward of his house, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Fill the men\u8217\'92s sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put each man\u8217\'92s money in the mouth of his sack, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 2\~}{\f0\fs24 and put my cup, the silver cup, in the mouth of the sack of the youngest, with his money for the grain.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 And he did as Joseph told him. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 3\~}{\f0\fs24 As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away with their donkeys. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 4\~}{\f0\fs24 They had gone only a short distance from the city. Now Joseph said to his steward, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Up, follow after the men, and when you overtake them, say to them, \u8216\'91Why have you repaid evil for good? }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 5\~}{\f0\fs24 Is it not from this that my lord drinks, and by this that he practices divination? You have done evil in doing this.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92\~\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 6\~}{\f0\fs24 When he overtook them, he spoke to them these words. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 7\~}{\f0\fs24 They said to him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Why does my lord speak such words as these? Far be it from your servants to do such a thing! }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 8\~}{\f0\fs24 Behold, the money that we found in the mouths of our sacks we brought back to you from the land of Canaan. How then could we steal silver or gold from your lord\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s house? }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 9\~}{\f0\fs24 Whichever of your servants is found with it shall die, and we also will be my lord\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s servants.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 10\~}{\f0\fs24 He said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Let it be as you say: he who is found with it shall be my servant, and the rest of you shall be innocent.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 11\~}{\f0\fs24 Then each man quickly lowered his sack to the ground, and each man opened his sack. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 12\~}{\f0\fs24 And he searched, beginning with the eldest and ending with the youngest. And the cup was found in Benjamin\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sack. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 13\~}{\f0\fs24 Then they tore their clothes, and every man loaded his donkey, and they returned to the city. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 14\~}{\f0\fs24 When Judah and his brothers came to Joseph\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s house, he was still there. They fell before him to the ground. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 15\~}{\f0\fs24 Joseph said to them, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93What deed is this that you have done? Do you not know that a man like me can indeed practice divination?\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 16\~}{\f0\fs24 And Judah said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93What shall we say to my lord? What shall we speak? Or how can we clear ourselves? God has found out the guilt of your servants; behold, we are my lord\u8217\'92s servants, both we and he also in whose hand the cup has been found.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 17\~}{\f0\fs24 But he said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Far be it from me that I should do so! Only the man in whose hand the cup was found shall be my servant. But as for you, go up in peace to your father.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 18\~}{\f0\fs24 Then Judah went up to him and said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Oh, my lord, please let your servant speak a word in my lord\u8217\'92s ears, and let not your anger burn against your servant, for you are like Pharaoh himself. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 19\~}{\f0\fs24 My lord asked his servants, saying, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Have you a father, or a brother?\u8217\'92 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 20\~}{\f0\fs24 And we said to my lord, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91We have a father, an old man, and a young brother, the child of his old age. His brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother\u8217\'92s children, and his father loves him.\u8217\'92 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 21\~}{\f0\fs24 Then you said to your servants, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Bring him down to me, that I may set my eyes on him.\u8217\'92 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 22\~}{\f0\fs24 We said to my lord, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91The boy cannot leave his father, for if he should leave his father, his father would die.\u8217\'92 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 23\~}{\f0\fs24 Then you said to your servants, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Unless your youngest brother comes down with you, you shall not see my face again.\u8217\'92 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 24\~}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93When we went back to your servant my father, we told him the words of my lord. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 25\~}{\f0\fs24 And when our father said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Go again, buy us a little food,\u8217\'92 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 26\~}{\f0\fs24 we said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91We cannot go down. If our youngest brother goes with us, then we will go down. For we cannot see the man\u8217\'92s face unless our youngest brother is with us.\u8217\'92 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 27\~}{\f0\fs24 Then your servant my father said to us, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91You know that my wife bore me two sons. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 28\~}{\f0\fs24 One left me, and I said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Surely he has been torn to pieces,\u8221\'94 and I have never seen him since. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 29\~}{\f0\fs24 If you take this one also from me, and harm happens to him, you will bring down my gray hairs in evil to Sheol.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 30\~}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Now therefore, as soon as I come to your servant my father, and the boy is not with us, then, as his life is bound up in the boy\u8217\'92s life, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 31\~}{\f0\fs24 as soon as he sees that the boy is not with us, he will die, and your servants will bring down the gray hairs of your servant our father with sorrow to Sheol. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 32\~}{\f0\fs24 For your servant became a pledge of safety for the boy to my father, saying, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91If I do not bring him back to you, then I shall bear the blame before my father all my life.\u8217\'92 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 33\~}{\f0\fs24 Now therefore, please let your servant remain instead of the boy as a servant to my lord, and let the boy go back with his brothers. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 34\~}{\f0\fs24 For how can I go back to my father if the boy is not with me? I fear to see the evil that would find my father.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3  }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv;ref=BibleESV.Ge44.1;off=725"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ge 44:1\endash 34). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}