{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ri0\sl276\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 Please read Genesis 44, then answer the following questions: }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 1. What instructions did Joseph give his servant in vv 1,2?\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 2. What accusation did the steward make against the men? (Think: Define \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93divining.\u8221\'94 Did Joseph actually divine? What was the source of his power?)\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 3. What response did the brothers give to the accusation?\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 4. What consequences did the servant say he would demand (v10)?\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 5. Who was considered guilty, and what did the brothers do?\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 6. What confession did Judah make to Joseph? What punishment did Joseph insist upon?\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 7. Special Assignment: Explain what Joseph was trying to accomplish? Explain the similarities between his own situation and the one he had set up for Benjamin.\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 8. Summarize the story as Judah told it (vv 18-29).\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 9. What problem did Judah fear (vv 30,31)?\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 10. Why did Judah feel especially responsible for Benjamin?\line }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 11. What alternative did Judah propose, and what reason did he give (vv 33,34)? (Think: Note the similarities between Jesus\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92 sacrifice and what Judah proposed.)}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1 12. Special Assignment: Summarize how Judah\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s statement showed the repentance of the brothers.}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0\cf1}