{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Worldliness can be defined as a love for and a willingness to conform to the sinful values and practices of society. In addition, it can include attachment to the things (good or bad) of this life. Separation from the world means that we desire to know God above all else, seeking to conform one\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s life to His ways and living by faith in His promises. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In leaving his homeland, he demonstrated separation (or detachment) from the world. The writer of Hebrews argues that Abram was looking for a homeland, but that it was a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93better one, a heavenly homeland\u8221\'94 (Hebrews 11:13-16). Abraham valued the promises of God over the things he possessed in Mesopotamia or would acquire in his travels. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Like Abraham, we are called to value the things of God above the temporal things of this life. We are often consumed with physical necessities, but the life of faith demands that we \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93\u8230\'85seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness.\u8221\'94  We often seek to make as much money as we can, but the life of faith demands that we lay up treasures in heaven. Jesus\u8217\'92 interaction with a certain rich man and the subsequent response of his disciples is instructive. This man diligently sought after Jesus to find out what he needed to do to inherit eternal life. This man\u8217\'92s religious zeal was undeniable. From childhood he had dedicated his life to observing the Ten Commandments. However, one thing stood in the way of him obtaining eternal life - attachment to his great possessions. Since he valued material wealth over following Jesus, it was impossible for him to enter the kingdom of God.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 By contrast, the twelve disciples (with the exception of Judas Iscariot) left everything to follow Jesus. In Mark 1:16-20 we read that Peter, Andrew, and the sons of Zebedee (James and John) left their occupations and family business to follow Jesus. In return, the Lord promised that they would receive a hundred times (along with persecutions) what they sacrificed in this life and in the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93age to come eternal life\u8221\'94 (Mark 10:30). Like Abraham, the disciples demonstrated willingness to give up everything in order to live a life of faith under the Lord\u8217\'92s direction. What about us? Are we willing to trust God enough to detach from those things that bring status, influence, privilege, and comfort? Like Abraham, we must be willing to embark on the journey of faith and give up the quest to create our own security in this life.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}