{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s call to Abram demanded that he leave his family, but we know from 12:4-5 that he was accompanied by a sizeable caravan that included his wife Sarai and his nephew Lot. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 How did Sarai respond? Did she question whether he really heard from God? Did his relatives and friends try to persuade to remain in Haran? Did they question Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s mental stability in following a \u8216\'91God\u8217\'92 that was foreign to his people? How easy was it for Abram to leave his extended family and homeland? We don\u8217\'92t know the answers to these questions, but Abram responded with obedience. Later on in the narrative, we will discover that Abram remains faithful through the challenges of family strife and doubt. In addition, he will pass the test of supreme love for God by being willing to sacrifice his promised Isaac to God.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The walk of faith demands supreme love for Jesus who said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me\u8221\'94 (Matthew 10:37). }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Our Lord knows that for some, allegiance to himself will lead to family conflict.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  In such cases, }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 we must not value our attachment to family so highly that we cave under the pressure of persecution. And l}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ike Abram, we must not cherish our families so highly that it prevents us from fulfilling God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s call on our lives.  }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0}