{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 OpenSans-Bold;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 The Rich Young Man}
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 17\~}{\f0\fs24 And as he was setting out on his journey, a man ran up and knelt before him and asked him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Good Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 18\~}{\f0\fs24 And Jesus said to him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 19\~}{\f0\fs24 You know the commandments: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Do not murder, Do not commit adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honor your father and mother.\u8217\'92\~\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 20\~}{\f0\fs24 And he said to him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Teacher, all these I have kept from my youth.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 21\~}{\f0\fs24 And Jesus, looking at him, loved him, and said to him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93You lack one thing: go, sell all that you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 22\~}{\f0\fs24 Disheartened by the saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 23\~}{\f0\fs24 And Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93How difficult it will be for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 24\~}{\f0\fs24 And the disciples were amazed at his words. But Jesus said to them again, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Children, how difficult it is to enter the kingdom of God! }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 25\~}{\f0\fs24 It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 26\~}{\f0\fs24 And they were exceedingly astonished, and said to him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Then who can be saved?\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 27\~}{\f0\fs24 Jesus looked at them and said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93With man it is impossible, but not with God. For all things are possible with God.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 28\~}{\f0\fs24 Peter began to say to him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93See, we have left everything and followed you.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 29\~}{\f0\fs24 Jesus said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Truly, I say to you, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or lands, for my sake and for the gospel, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 30\~}{\f0\fs24 who will not receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands, with persecutions, and in the age to come eternal life. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 31\~}{\f0\fs24 But many who are first will be last, and the last first.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Mk10.17&off=0&ctx=his+hands+on+them.+%0a~The+Rich+Young+Man%0a1"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Mk 10:17\endash 31). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 17\endash 20}{\f0\fs24 . The rich man sought to honor Jesus by kneeling before him and addressing him as \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Good Teacher.\u8221\'94 Jesus\u8217\'92 objection to being called \u8220\'93good\u8221\'94 is surprising to many. However, as Lane suggests, \u8220\'93In calling in question the man\u8217\'92s use of \u8216\'91good,\u8217\'92 Jesus\u8217\'92 intention is not to pose the question of his own sinlessness or oneness with the Father, but to set in correct perspective the honor of God.\u8221\'94 This man undoubtedly viewed himself as \u8220\'93good\u8221\'94 and needed to see that \u8220\'93his only hope is an utter reliance upon God, who alone can bestow eternal life.\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\super 18}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The question, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93What must I do to inherit eternal life?\u8221\'94 further suggests the trust that this man had in Jesus. In reply to the man\u8217\'92s question, he recalls in summary fashion several of the ten commandments. The rich man had kept the ten commandments from childhood.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 21}{\f0\fs24 . It is easy to think of the rich man as simply a pawn in Jesus\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 teaching game, as if he gave this man the challenge to give his wealth away in order to use his failure as an object lesson. But Mark says that Jesus \u8220\'93loved him.\u8221\'94 Jesus saw great potential in the man\u8217\'92s trust in him, desire for salvation, and righteous lifestyle. He wanted the man to be one of his chosen followers.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 22}{\f0\fs24 . The rich man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s response reveals his sincerity. The first verb Mark uses to describe his reaction can be translated in two ways. The NIV translation, \u8220\'93the man\u8217\'92s face fell\u8221\'94 is an attempt to express one meaning of the word \u963\'73\u964\'74\u965\'3F\u947\'3F\u957\'3F\u940\'3F\u963\'73\u945\'61\u962\'3F (}{\f0\fs24\i1 stygnasas}{\f0\fs24 ), which is that his appearance indicated he was gloomy or sad. The NRSV \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93he was shocked\u8221\'94 expresses the alternative. In either case the next phrase says that he went away grieving, because he had great wealth. His wealth was the one thing he would not give up to inherit eternal life.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 23\endash 25}{\f0\fs24 . Jesus used this opportunity to teach his disciples about wealth. It is hard for anyone to enter the kingdom of God. It is especially hard for a rich man. In fact Jesus uses a hyperbolic illustration which characterizes a rich man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s possibilities for entering the kingdom of God as nonexistent. There is no ancient evidence for the oft-cited opinion that the eye of the needle was a gate into the walls of Jerusalem that a camel could enter only with great difficulty.}{\f0\fs24\super 20}{\f0\fs24  Jesus had in mind the eye of a literal needle.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 26}{\f0\fs24 . The shock expressed by the disciples in vv. 24 and 26 may reveal an underlying theology that supposes that rich men like the one they had just seen are rich because they are blessed by God for their righteousness. Their reaction, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Who then can be saved?\u8221\'94 seems to imply that the rich would be especially likely to be saved. If they are not saved, then who can be?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 27}{\f0\fs24 . Fortunately, impossibilities are possible for God. Rich men can be saved and so can the rest of humanity.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 28}{\f0\fs24 . Peter\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s statement sought credit for doing what Jesus told the rich man to do. The twelve had left everything they had behind and followed Jesus. Peter\u8217\'92s language reflects the responses of Peter and Andrew in 1:18 as \u8220\'93they left their nets and followed him\u8221\'94 and of James and John in 1:20 as \u8220\'93they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired men and followed him.\u8221\'94 The four fishermen had heeded the call and paid a high price.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 29\endash 30}{\f0\fs24 . Jesus began his reply to Peter with a commendation of his sacrifice. With his customary \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I tell you the truth\u8221\'94 he emphasized the truth and significance of his promise. Those who sacrifice houses or family or fields for the sake of Jesus or the gospel will receive one hundred times what they have sacrificed in the present life and in the age to come they will receive eternal life. In a later text Jesus tells the disciples that Christians will suffer great family trials as \u8220\'93brother will betray brother to death and a father his child. Children will rebel against their parents and have them put to death. All men will hate you because of me \u8230\'85\u8221\'94 (13:12\endash 13). This statement fills out both the sense in which many may have to leave family members and the ominous reference to \u8220\'93and with them, persecutions\u8221\'94 in the promise of reward. Of course, Jesus\u8217\'92 promise does not involve literal multiplications of new family members or houses or fields. The sense in which one gains new family members may be illuminated by Mark 3:34, \u8220\'93Here are my mother and my brothers! Whoever does the will of God is my brother and sister and mother.\u8221\'94 For the multiple returns on houses and fields one might consult Acts 2:44\endash 45: \u8220\'93All the believers were together and had everything in common. Selling their possessions and goods, they gave to anyone as he had need.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 31}{\f0\fs24 . This paradoxical saying is apparently a rebuke of the down side of Peter\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s statement. Peter has expressed the \u8220\'93me-first\u8221\'94 attitude that keeps coming through in the disciples\u8217\'92 behavior (see 8:33\endash 34, 38; 10:13, 35\endash 37, 41) despite Jesus\u8217\'92 repeated efforts to dispel it. Jesus warns Peter that those who place themselves first will be last and vice versa. This statement is more fully illuminated in Matt 19:27\endash 20:16. There Peter\u8217\'92s attitude is more clearly displayed by the addition of his statement, \u8220\'93What then will there be for us?\u8221\'94 (19:27). The paradox of the first and last is followed by the parable of the Workers in the Vineyard and, in 20:16, a repetition of the paradox. }
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= Black, A. (1995). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/cpc-mark?ref=Bible.Mk10.17-20&off=4066"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Mark\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (Mk 10:17\endash 31). Joplin, MO: College Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}