{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 To enter the kingdom of God one must submit to God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s rule so that God reigns over every aspect of life.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Disciples must be prepared to give up everything. Peter quickly reminds Jesus that they have done exactly that. Jesus promises that their sacrifice will not be for naught. Those who have left earthly attachments for the sake of the gospel will receive hundredfold rewards\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 but \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f0\fs24\i1 with \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85 persecutions}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (10:30). In this age, those who become homeless will have a home among those who receive them (see 6:10). Those who surrender families will become part of a greater family not based on biological kinship (3:33\endash 35). Those who leave fields will be given greater fields of mission opportunity (see Matt. 9:37\endash 38).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Garland, D. E. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nivac62mk?ref=Bible.Mk10.17-31&off=12638&ctx=gn+of+God+requires.+~To+enter+the+kingdom"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Mark\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 400). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan Publishing House.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The point of this story is not to drive home the need for all of Jesus\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 followers to sell their possessions.Jesus did not insist that Zacchaeus sell all his goods and give them to the poor before he would deign to eat with him. Zacchaeus voluntarily offers to give up half of his possessions and to restore fourfold whatever he may have gained by fraud (see Ex. 22:1; Lev. 5:16; Num. 5:7). This willingness to make things right evokes Jesus\u8217\'92 response, \u8220\'93Today salvation has come to this house\u8221\'94 (Luke 19:8\endash 9). Jesus\u8217\'92 encounter with this rich man in Mark serves to illustrate how difficult it is for the rich (or any one, for that matter) to do this. Few are willing to risk divesting themselves of whatever provides them security in this life to enter a new quality of life under God\u8217\'92s rule.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Garland, D. E. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nivac62mk?ref=Bible.Mk10.17-31&off=18824&ctx=s+ultimate+loyalty.+~The+point+of+this+st"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Mark\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 402\endash 403). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan Publishing House.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Wealth possesses high voltage and explosive energy since so many crave it and it strikes such reverence in the heart. No Christian is immune from the danger of Mammon. Covetousness is like a virus that takes residence in the soul and begins slowly to work its destruction. The love of acquisition and an appetite for self-gratification will deaden the instinct for self-sacrifice.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Garland, D. E. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nivac62mk?ref=Bible.Mk10.17-31&off=20369&ctx=harmless+commodity.+~Wealth+possesses+hig"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Mark\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 403). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan Publishing House.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Jesus said that the rich man in this story lacked one thing, though he did not specify what it was. In applying this passage to our contemporary situation we can imagine that he lacked the very things that we ourselves may lack. First, this man lacked for nothing. He had too much to give up. Money brings people many things (honor, respect, admiration, power, beauty, sex), which is why it is so alluring. Wealth cannot make one holy or purchase eternal life, and it does not offer any deep happiness, even when people get more than their fair share.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Garland, D. E. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nivac62mk?ref=Bible.Mk10.17-31&off=28263&ctx=e+a+mere+nothing.22%0a~Jesus+said+that+the+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Mark\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 406). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan Publishing House.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The second thing this man lacked was trust. God requires something more than simply reverence for Jesus and zealous attempts at obedience. God requires radical trust. Like so many today, this rich man wanted to serve God on his own terms. He obeyed all the commandments that suited him but resisted giving his whole life over to God. He was \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93afraid to expose himself to the uncertainties and insecurities of the future\u8221\'94 or to make himself vulnerable as a child. He accumulated possessions to secure his life in this world, and he accumulated obedience to the commandments to secure his life in the world to come.}{\f0\fs24\super 25}{\f0\fs24  In a culture that has grown wary of commitment and risk, few want to bet their whole lives on Jesus. They also want to keep a material safety net and refuse to disentangle themselves from something that brings status, influence, and privilege. Few are willing to trust that there will be other brothers and sisters in the faith who will watch over them and care for them, partly because we do not watch out for them. To have life, one must trust God and give up the quest to create one\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s own security.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Garland, D. E. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nivac62mk?ref=Bible.Mk10.17-31&off=29939&ctx=t%2c+lack+everything.%0a~The+second+thing+thi"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Mark\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 407). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan Publishing House.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}}