{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 37}{\f0\fs24 . It is affection that binds households together; thus Jesus moves on to consider the place of love. He assumes that there will be love between parents and children, but claims for himself a higher place in his disciples\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 affection than that which they accord to their nearest and dearest on earth, and that in a society that held it a dreadful thing to put anyone higher than one\u8217\'92s parents. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24\i1
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\i1 Loves}{\f0\fs24\super 88}{\f0\fs24  is a significant word; it points to the warmest affection. Jesus does not bid his followers love their parents or their children (nor, on the other hand, does he forbid warm affection in the family). He simply assumes that family members will love one another. But he is concerned that they must not value their attachment to the members of their families so highly that he is pushed into the background. This has important implications for an understanding of the person of Jesus. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 No mere man has the right to claim a love higher than that for parents or children; it is only because he is who he is that Jesus can look for such love. The words imply that he is more than a merely human teacher and leader. Of the one who lacks this love for him he says that he is }{\f0\fs24\i1 not worthy of me}{\f0\fs24  (}{\f0\fs24\i1 GNB,}{\f0\fs24  \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93is not fit to be my disciple\u8221\'94). }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 We must not forget that Jesus knew what it was to experience misunderstanding in the family, for his own thought him mad (Mark 3:21). Jesus is not asking from his followers something he did not know for himself.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= Morris, L. (1992). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/pntcmatt?ref=Bible.Mt10.37&off=0&ctx=+too+strong+a+word.%0a~37.+It+is+affection+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Gospel according to Matthew\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 267\endash 268). Grand Rapids, MI; Leicester, England: W.B. Eerdmans; Inter-Varsity Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}}