{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 37}{\f0\fs24 . Because of the division which Jesus provokes within families (vv. 34\endash 36), true discipleship may bring a conflict of loyalties, and in that case, following Jesus must take precedence over the natural love of family (the Greek word is }{\f0\fs24\i1 phile\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u333\'6F}{\f0\fs24 , natural affection, not }{\f0\fs24\i1 agapa\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u333\'6F}{\f0\fs24 , the loving commitment which is a Christian characteristic). }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The Christian may even have to leave his family (19:29). The Lucan parallel (Luke 14:26) calls for \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91hatred\u8217\'92 of the family, but Matthew\u8217\'92s version correctly interprets this Semitic idiom (cf. Gen. 29:31; Deut. 21:15; Mal. 1:2\endash 3) as an expression of prior loyalty or of choice rather than of actual dislike. Jesus calls not for an unloving attitude, but for a willingness to put him first in the concrete situation where the calls of Jesus and of family conflict. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 For the Rabbis too the claims of the teacher came before those of the father (Mishnah, }{\f0\fs24\i1 BM}{\f0\fs24  2:11). For }{\f0\fs24\i1 worthy}{\f0\fs24 , see on v. 11; \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91not the right sort to be my disciple\u8217\'92.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= France, R. T. (1985). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/tntc61mtus?ref=Bible.Mt10.37&off=0&ctx=th+their+eyes+open.%0a~37.+Because+of+the+d"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Matthew: an introduction and commentary\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. 1, pp. 192\endash 193). Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}}