{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 This passage is unique to Luke, though verses 26\endash 27 are like Matthew 10:37\endash 38 and verses 34\endash 35 are similar to Matthew 5:13 and Mark 9:49\endash 50. It is extremely significant that this passage is addressed to }{\f0\fs24\i1 large crowds.}{\f0\fs24  Jesus offered himself to all, but he also was honest from the very beginning of his preaching about what the journey would involve. What Jesus asks for is first place in one\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s heart. That is what successful discipleship requires.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 So Jesus calls for a follower who will }{\f0\fs24\i1 hate his mother and father, his wife and children, his brothers and sisters\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 yes, even his own life.}{\f0\fs24  The point of the list is that no other relationship is first for a disciple. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Hate\u8221\'94 is used figuratively and suggests a priority of relationship. Jesus is first. To follow Jesus means to follow Jesus, not anyone or anything else. A disciple is a learner, and the primary teacher in life is Jesus. This total loyalty is crucial, given the rejection and persecution that lie ahead. If his followers care more about family than about Jesus, when families are divided under pressure of persecution, they will choose against Jesus. This is what lies behind Jesus\u8217\'92 remarks. Discipleship is not possible if Jesus is not the teacher.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= Bock, D. L. (1994). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/ivntclk?ref=Bible.Lk14.15&off=5290&ctx=ll+not+come+easily.%0a~This+passage+is+uniq"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Luke\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Lk 14:15). Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}