{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s threefold promise to Abraham begins with }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 the promise of land (12:1). When Abraham left Haran with Sarah, Lot and all of their possessions, they set out for the land of Canaan (12:5). When they arrived, they discovered that the territory was already inhabited by Canaanites. When Abraham arrived at Shechem the Lord appeared and reassured him - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93to your offspring I will give this land\u8221\'94 (12:7). The promised land definitely refers to Canaan, also known as Palestine, the land of Israel. In response to God\u8217\'92s reassurance Abraham built an altar and worshiped God. Even though people already inhabited the land, Abraham demonstrated that faith in God\u8217\'92s promise   displays itself through actions. He reminds us that faith begins with hearing God\u8217\'92s word and grows as we continue to receive and obey God\u8217\'92s word. A living faith leads to a life of worship.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 As Abraham continued to explore the land and build altars to God, we know that he was also looking forward to an eternal land, for the Scripture says \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93h}{\f0\fs24 e was looking forward to the city that has foundations, whose designer and builder is God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94. God\u8217\'92s promise to Abraham also included the assurance of an eternal city and homeland that transcended Canaan. He journeyed as a foreigner looking forward to the fulfillment of the same promise given to us as Christians - the promise of a new heavens and a new earth (2 Peter 3:13). We will inherit the promise of a renewed universe if we, like Abraham, respond to God in faithful obedience to Christ (Romans 4:13). Thus, the promised land not only refers to Canaan but it also is a symbol of the holy city, the New Jerusalem, that will come down out of heaven from God (Revelation 21:2).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Just imagine how the fulfillment of the promised land  would affect Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s life. It would mean removal of the obstacles currently in place in Canaan. He would be able to settle down. He could avoid being exposed to different kinds of dangers, threats and attacks upon his family. In a sense, the fulfillment of the promise would bring victory and rest to Abraham. However, Abraham would have to continue to trust God\u8217\'92s word, guidance and protection in the meantime. As Christians, we are commanded to \u8220\'93strive to enter that rest, so that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience. For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart.\~And no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account\u8221\'94 (Hebrews 4:11-13).}}