{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 God was choosing Abram to bless the whole earth\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 all the families of the earth\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 with the promised seed, the Messiah, the Savior of the world. How do we know this? From Scripture: Scripture clearly tells us that this is a reference to the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ. This will be seen in a moment. But common logic and reason also tells us that }{\f0\fs24\i1 the promised seed}{\f0\fs24  is a reference to the Messiah. Just think: this is a blessing so great that it blesses all the families upon earth, all the families who have lived or ever will live. A blessing this great could only refer to the Savior. Only God Himself\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 through His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 could do something so great that it would literally bless every single family upon earth throughout all the generations of human history.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge12.3&off=260&ctx=+were+to+be+blessed%0a~God+was+choosing+Abr"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 26). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24  As stated above, Scripture tells us exactly what God meant in this promise: this is a direct\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 very specific\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 reference to the promised seed, the Lord Jesus Christ, the Messiah and Savior of the world.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1)\tab Note the Old Testament references.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a)\tab God gave the promise of the Savior at least three times to Abram.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1  (Ge. 12:3)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 (Ge. 22:18)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 b)\tab God confirmed the promise of the Savior to Isaac, Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s son.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1  (Ge. 26:3\endash 4)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 c)\tab God also confirmed the promise of the Savior to Jacob.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 (Ge. 28:14)}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge12.3&off=1559&ctx=ssed%E2%80%9D+(Ge.+12:3).%0ab.~+As+stated+above%2c+Sc"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 26). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Note the New Testament references and interpretation.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a)\tab The first New Testament reference is Acts 3:25. Peter preached this glorious fact: Jesus Christ fulfilled the covenant given to Abraham and the other godly fathers of history. What covenant? The covenant of }{\f0\fs24\i1 the promised seed}{\f0\fs24 , the Lord Jesus Christ, who would bless people and turn them away from their wicked ways. Note this clear declaration:\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge12.3&off=2865&ctx=ed%E2%80%9D+(Ge.+28:14).%0a2)+~Note+the+New+Testame"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 26). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24  }{\f3\fs24\b1\super 25\~}{\f0\fs24 You are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant that God made with your fathers, saying to Abraham, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91And in your offspring shall all the families of the earth be blessed.\u8217\'92 }{\f3\fs24\b1\super 26\~}{\f0\fs24 God, having raised up his servant, sent him to you first, to bless you by turning every one of you from your wickedness.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ac3.24&off=112&ctx=oclaimed+these+days.~+25%C2%A0e%EF%BB%BFYou+are+the+so"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ac 3:24\endash 26). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 \tab The third New Testament reference is Ga. 3:8. This verse explains a surprising fact: the promise of the promised seed actually }{\f0\fs24\i1 contained the gospel}{\f0\fs24 . The gospel of Jesus Christ was actually being preached to Abraham when God promised to give him the promised seed.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge12.3&off=4456&ctx=ness%E2%80%9D+(Ge.+15:6).%0ac)~+The+third+New+Testa"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 27). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f3\fs24\b1\super 7\~}{\f0\fs24 Know then that it is those of faith who are the sons of Abraham. }{\f3\fs24\b1\super 8\~}{\f0\fs24 And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93In you shall all the nations be blessed.\u8221\'94 }{\f3\fs24\b1\super 9\~}{\f0\fs24 So then, those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ga3.7&off=0&ctx=as+righteousness%E2%80%9D%3f+%0a~7%C2%A0Know+then+that+it+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ga 3:7\endash 9). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The fourth New Testament reference is Ga. 3:16. This verse gives a clear explanation: the promise of the seed is singular, not plural. The promised seed does not refer to many persons, but to one person, the Lord Jesus Christ, the Savior and Messiah of the world\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge12.3&off=4916&ctx=8%2c+cp.+vv.+6%E2%80%939).%0ad)+~The+fourth+New+Testa"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 27). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f3\fs24\b1\super 16\~}{\f0\fs24 Now the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring. It does not say, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And to offsprings,\u8221\'94 referring to many, but referring to one, \u8220\'93And to your offspring,\u8221\'94 who is Christ\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ga3.16&off=0&ctx=+has+been+ratified.+~16%C2%A0Now+a%EF%BB%BFthe+promise"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ga 3:16). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Note this also: a person can only become a child of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Abram\u8217\'92s seed (descendant)\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 and inherit the promise made to Abram, by faith in Christ, by believing and trusting Him.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge12.3&off=5334&ctx=Christ%E2%80%9D+(Ga.+3:16).%0a~Note+this+also:+a+pe"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 27). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f3\fs24\b1\super 26\~}{\f0\fs24 for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith. }{\f3\fs24\b1\super 27\~}{\f0\fs24 For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. }{\f3\fs24\b1\super 28\~}{\f0\fs24 There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. }{\f3\fs24\b1\super 29\~}{\f0\fs24 And if you are Christ\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s, then you are Abraham\u8217\'92s offspring, heirs according to promise. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ga3.26&off=0&ctx=r+under+a+guardian%2c+~26%C2%A0for+in+Christ+Jes"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ga 3:26\endash 29). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 3}{\f0\fs24  (12:6) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Faith\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Testing\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Pilgrim\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Pilgrimage}{\f0\fs24 : there was the testing of faith: Abram reached the land, but he could not settle down within it; he had to pass through the land as }{\f0\fs24\i1 a pilgrim}{\f0\fs24 , for there was opposition there (the Canaanites). Think for a moment: when Abram arrived in Canaan, what was he expecting to find? A land uninhabited and unpossessed, a free land ready to be claimed by the first pioneer to settle within its borders? Or, was Abram expecting the land to be settled and possessed by people? Scripture does not say, but when Abram crossed the border of Canaan, he found a land already inhabited. The Canaanites, a godless nation of people, were already there. Abram faced a formidable enemy if he began to claim the land. He could easily see that he was not going to possess the land within the foreseeable future. All kinds of questions must have flashed across his mind. He must have been gripped with \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab uncertainty}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab misgivings}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab hesitation}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab questioning}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Could it be that he had misread God, that he had made a mistake?}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faith was tested, sorely tested. The faith of this great pioneer for God was tested to the }{\f0\fs24\i1 nth}{\f0\fs24  degree. He was in the land, but he could not yet possess it. Opposition and strong forces stood toe to toe against his claim to the promised land. What was he to do?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Should he return? Should he give up his faith, turn around and go back home to Haran or to Ur of the Chaldees?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Should he continue to believe God, following after God\u8217\'92s promises, continue to claim the promises of God despite the opposition and the impossible situation that confronted him?\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge12.6&off=0&ctx=+crown%E2%80%9D+(Re.+3:11).%0a~3+(12:6)+Faith%E2%80%94Testi"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 33). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . There is a beautiful analogy for the believer in this experience of Abram. Just as Abram reached the promised land but did not yet physically possess it, so the believer reaches the promised land of heaven immediately upon conversion, but does not yet physically possess it.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 When a person is saved\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 when he truly begins to follow after God and His promises\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 things happen to him in relation to heaven.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (1)\tab God counts the believer as already in heaven (see note 3\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ep. 2:6). The believer is not physically in heaven, but he is as good as there. God has promised heaven to him, and what God promises always takes place; thus, the believer is counted as being in heaven, as already there.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge12.6&off=3527&ctx=see+note%E2%80%94Ge.+12:7).%0a~Thought+1.+There+is+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 34). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b1\super 4\~}{\f0\fs24 But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, }{\f3\fs24\b1\super 5\~}{\f0\fs24 even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 by grace you have been saved\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  }{\f3\fs24\b1\super 6\~}{\f0\fs24 and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, }{\f3\fs24\b1\super 7\~}{\f0\fs24 so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Eph2.4&off=0&ctx=e+rest+of+mankind.2+~4%C2%A0But%EF%BB%BF3+God%2c+being+r"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Eph 2:4\endash 7). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The believer is }{\f0\fs24\i1 immediately placed}{\f0\fs24  in the heavenly realm or the spiritual realm of life. That is, his mind and thoughts are focused upon heaven and the things of heaven, upon God and His promises. It is God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s Spirit that pulls his mind to spiritual things, that stirs his mind to focus upon heaven and the things of heaven. As stated, the believer is not bodily in heaven, but his mind is to be kept within the realm (upon the things) of heaven. In fact, if he is truly following after God and His promises, he naturally keeps his mind and thoughts upon God and His promises\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the Spirit of God stirs him to so focus his mind.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge12.6&off=4734&ctx=+(Ph.+3:20%E2%80%9321).%0a(2)+~The+believer+is+imme"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 34). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The believer\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faith in the promised land of heaven is constantly tested just as Abram\u8217\'92s was. In fact, the believer is never free from enemies who oppose his inheriting the promised land of heaven. Godless foes\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 death, Satan, and all kinds of trials and temptations\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 stand against him while he is living within this world. Just like Abram, the believer is to continue trusting God: he is to believe that God will defeat all the enemies of the promised land, including that final enemy, death.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge12.6&off=6061&ctx=ngs%E2%80%9D+(Ph.+4:8).%0a(3)+~The+believer%E2%80%99s+faith"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 34). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Just like Abram, the believer is a pilgrim upon earth: he lives upon earth, but he is only traveling and passing through, ever seeking for the promised land of heaven. The believer is a citizen of both earth and heaven (Ph. 3:20\endash 21). Note this: just like Abram \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab the believer journeys upon earth, but his destination is the promised land}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab this is not the believer\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s home; heaven is his home}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab the believer\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s mind and thoughts are upon the earth when necessary, but they are mostly upon the promised land of God}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab the believer\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faith and hope are not in this world, but in God and in the land promised by God}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Again, the believer is just like Abram: he is a pilgrim upon earth. He lives for the earth, yes, to make it a far better place; but he also lives for heaven, knowing that this earth is only his temporary home. Simply stated, the true believer knows what Abram knew: he is only a pilgrim upon earth; the promised land of heaven is his eternal destiny.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge12.6&off=6964&ctx=+(1+Co.+15:54).%0a(4)+~Just+like+Abram%2c+the"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 34\endash 35). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b1\super 20\~}{\f0\fs24 But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, }{\f3\fs24\b1\super 21\~}{\f0\fs24 who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body, by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Php3.20&off=0&ctx=+on+earthly+things.+~20%C2%A0But+c%EF%BB%BFour+citizen"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Php 3:20\endash 21). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 This is what is meant by }{\f0\fs24\i1 the pilgrimage of faith}{\f0\fs24 . The believer actually lives upon earth, but he believes that in Christ he lives in the promised land of heaven, and he believes that some day he will bodily live there. Thus, the believer lives upon earth as a pilgrim: his life is a pilgrimage of faith. His life, movements, and being\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 all that he is\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 are a pilgrimage of faith.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The point is this: when a person believes in God and His promises, he lives for God and His promises. He lives for something far beyond this earth. This earth is not his home, not his destination or resting place. His faith is in God and in the promised land; thus he lives upon earth as a pilgrim. His life upon earth becomes a }{\f0\fs24\i1 pilgrimage of faith}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge12.6&off=9814&ctx=well+as+upon+earth.%0a~This+is+what+is+mean"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 35). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b1\super 7\~}{\f0\fs24 Then the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  appeared to Abram and said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93To your offspring I will give this land.\u8221\'94 So he built there an altar to the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 , who had appeared to him. }{\f3\fs24\b1\super 8\~}{\f0\fs24 From there he moved to the hill country on the east of Bethel and pitched his tent, with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east. And there he built an altar to the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  and called upon the name of the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 . }{\f3\fs24\b1\super 9\~}{\f0\fs24 And Abram journeyed on, still going toward the Negeb.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ge12.7&off=0&ctx=s+were+in+the+land.+~7%C2%A0Then+the+Lord+appe"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ge 12:7\endash 9). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 What was Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s response? Abram made the decision for God, to continue following after God and His promises. Note that he built an altar to the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  who had appeared to him (v. 8). The altar had at least seven purposes (see }{\f4\fs20\scaps Deeper Study}{\f4\fs20  # 1}{\f0\fs24 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 8:20 for more discussion):}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab }{\f0\fs24\i1 To offer sacrifices to God}{\f0\fs24 , asking forgiveness for unbelief and sins.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab }{\f0\fs24\i1 To make a rededication to God}{\f0\fs24 , renewing his commitment to God.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab }{\f0\fs24\i1 To seek God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s continued presence and guidance}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab }{\f0\fs24\i1 To worship the }{\f0\fs24\i1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 : to worship the very Person who had met his need.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab }{\f0\fs24\i1 To acknowledge the }{\f0\fs24\i1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 , that the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  alone could fulfill so great a promise, that he was totally dependent upon the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab }{\f0\fs24\i1 To praise the }{\f0\fs24\i1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 , to praise Him for giving so wonderful a promise.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab }{\f0\fs24\i1 To testify to the }{\f0\fs24\i1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 , to bear witness to the Lord\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s glorious goodness in meeting his need and in giving so great a promise.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge12.7-9&off=1054&ctx=he+promised+land%0aa.+~What+was+Abram%E2%80%99s+res"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 36). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . James Montgomery Boice states the point well:}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\i1 I note this sequence: first, Abram arrives in a place; second, God speaks to him; third, he builds an altar.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85 I think the sequence is to be understood as being repeated, though it is not always spelled out in detail. First, Abram arrived at a place. Second, he recognized God\u8217\'92s presence. Third, he raised an altar as a testimony to God\u8217\'92s claim upon that place and on those who should ever after live there. Abram passed on\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 to other places and eventually to glory\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 but the altars remained. They remained as witness to the fact that in this place a child of God once knelt and prayed, proclaimed the gospel of grace, and claimed that spot for God\u8217\'92s glory}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\i1 We are called to do that\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 wherever we are and at all times. We are called to be pilgrims, but that does not mean that we are to pass through this world and leave it untouched. For the master of the heavenly city is master of this world too, and we are ambassadors of His kingdom and are charged with proclaiming His rule, and actually establishing that rule, wherever our pilgrimage takes us. Do you live on this or that street? On this or that block? Then you must build your altar on that street and claim that neighborhood for Jesus}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge12.7-9&off=2335&ctx=ould+testify+to+God%0a~Thought+1.+James+Mon"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 36). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}