{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red70\green139\blue223;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb240\sl288\slmult0\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\cf1 "God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s Great Call to Abram (the Abrahamic Covenant, Part 2): The Great Promises of God, 12:1\endash 3.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 1.God promised to give Abram the promised land (v. 1).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 2.God promised to give Abram the promised seed, meaning a great nation of people (vv. 2\endash 3).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 3.God promised to give Abram the promised seed, meaning the Messiah, the Savior of the world: a special blessing to all the people on earth (v. 3)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/90948?length=398"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "Note that God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise to give the promised seed had a double meaning. It meant both \u8230\'85}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \bullet the seed of a great nation of people (vv. 2\endash 3).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \bullet the seed of the Messiah, the Savior of the world, the Lord Jesus Christ Himself (v. 3)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/91347?length=231"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "Note God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise to Abram\u8217\'92s son, Isaac.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Sojourn in this land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee; for unto thee, and unto thy seed, I will give all these countries, and I will perform the oath which I sware unto Abraham thy father\u8221\'94 (Ge. 26:3)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/93941?length=256"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "The promised land definitely refers to Palestine, the land of Israel. This is clearly stated by God time and again.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 1)Note God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise to Abram.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Sichem, unto the plain of Moreh. And the Canaanite was then in the land. And the Lord appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land: and there builded he an altar unto the Lord, who appeared unto him\u8221\'94 (Ge. 12:6\endash 7)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/92423?length=436"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "The promised land definitely refers to heaven; the promised land of Canaan is a symbol (a type, a picture, an illustration) of heaven, of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise to the believer that he will inherit heaven, the new heavens and earth. Note two facts:"}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/94578?length=239"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "Note God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise to Abram\u8217\'92s grandson, Jacob.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And, behold, the Lord stood above it, and said, I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac: the land whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed\u8221\'94 (Ge. 28:13)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/94201?length=241"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promised land refers to the whole world. It is the whole world that Abram and believers are to inherit."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/94821?length=109"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "For the promise, that he should be the heir of the world, was not to Abraham, or to his seed, through the law, but through the righteousness of faith\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Ro. 4:13).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 The inheritance of the whole world could only refer to the new heavens and earth\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the new universe\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 that God is going to recreate in the end time. "}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/94932?length=308"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "And I John saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a great voice out of heaven, saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their God. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain: for the former things are passed away\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Re. 21:2\endash 4)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/99460?length=534"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb960\sl576\slmult0\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs48\cf1 "God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promised land refers to a heavenly country"}
\par\pard\plain \sb240\sl288\slmult0\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/98009?length=48"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "The promised land represented many things to Abram.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 1)The promised land was the assurance of a personal inheritance: the possession of a new country, of his own property with all its good land, wealth, and rights."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/100165?length=214"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise included the eternal, permanent possession of the promised land, and Abram knew this.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93By faith he sojourned in the land of promise, as in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise: for he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God\u8221\'94 (He. 11:9\endash 10).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3FThis refers to the heavenly Jerusalem, the capital of the new heavens and earth (see He. 12:22; 13:14. See pt. b. 2) above. Also see note\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Re. 21:2.)"}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/101153?length=504"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "Note this, for it is important: Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s hope was for a permanent, eternal city and country. True, he was physically journeying all throughout the promised land of Canaan, believing that God was going to give him and his seed (descendants) the land of Canaan. "}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/100566?length=259"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "Thought 1. Note how the promise given to Abram parallels the promise given to the believer. Abram was to inherit the promised land if he turned away from the world and followed God. We are to inherit the promised land of heaven if we turn away from the world and follow God. The promised land is a symbol, a type, a picture of heaven."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/102453?length=334"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "The promised land meant victory and rest to Abram, a God-given victory and rest \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \bullet from having to wander about}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \bullet from never being settled}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \bullet from restlessness}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \bullet from being exposed to all kinds of trials, dangers, threats, attacks, slavery, and bondage that comes from having no settled home within this world, from having no place that is given and protected by God Himself"}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/105558?length=373"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "The promise given to Abram.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And I will give unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, the land wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession; and I will be their God\u8221\'94 (Ge. 17:8).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 (2)The promise given to the believer.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93In my Father\u8217\'92s house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also\u8221\'94 (Jn. 14:2\endash 3).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God, an house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens\u8221\'94 (2 Co. 5:1)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/102792?length=678"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "The promise given to the believer.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls\u8221\'94 (Mt. 11:29).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write, Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth: yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labours; and their works do follow them\u8221\'94 (Re. 14:13)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/107029?length=385"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "Thought 1. Note how the spiritual victory and rest promised Abram represents the spiritual rest promised the believer (see note\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 He. 4:1 for more discussion).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 (1)The promise given to Abram.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing: and I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed\u8221\'94 (Ge. 12:2\endash 3)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/106194?length=354"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 The promise given to the believer.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Mt. 6:33).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world\u8221\'94 (Mt. 28:20)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/109805?length=189"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "The promised land was the assurance of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s own presence, that is, of God\u8217\'92s love, care, provision, and protection. Abram was bound to know this: if God was going to give him the promised land, then God must love and care for him. God would therefore provide and protect him no matter what lay ahead. God\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 His strong presence\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 would be with him through all the trials and struggles of life.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 Thought 1. Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s assurance of God\u8217\'92s presence symbolizes the believer\u8217\'92s experience. The believer can be assured of God\u8217\'92s presence: of God\u8217\'92s love, care, provision, and protection."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/108295?length=568"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "Thought 1. Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s assurance of God\u8217\'92s presence symbolizes the believer\u8217\'92s experience. The believer can be assured of God\u8217\'92s presence: of God\u8217\'92s love, care, provision, and protection."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/108684?length=179"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\cf1}