{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Helvetica-Bold;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red70\green139\blue223;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sa240\sb960\sl576\slmult0\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs48\b0\i0\cf1 "God promised to make Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s name great. "}
\par\pard\plain \sb240\sl288\slmult0\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/120617?length=41"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \sa600\sb600\sl768\slmult0\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs64\b1\i0\cf1 "The greatness of Abram\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s name is clearly seen in secular history.}
\par\pard\plain \sb240\sl288\slmult0\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3FAbram gave rise to both the Jewish and Arab nations of the earth. Both peoples trace their ancestry back to Abram and call him the father of their people.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3FAbram was to become the father of kings (Ge. 17:6), and Sarah the mother of nations and kings (Ge. 17:16).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3FAbram was known as a mighty prince by the surrounding nations even in his day (Ge. 21:22\endash 34; 23:6).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3FAbram was also known as a prophet of God (Ge. 20:7).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 b)But more than secular history, Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s name is great in the annals of faith. All believers (all those who understand that Abram is the father of faith) honor Abram. The very name of Abram is synonymous with faith. "}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/120731?length=706"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "#Abram has blessed the earth with a great example of faith, perhaps the greatest of examples. Abram believed God against all odds.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3FHe believed God for the promised land even when he knew nothing about the land, not even where it was; and he continued to believe God for the land all through his life, even though he never possessed a single acre.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3FHe believed God for the promised seed\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 a great nation of people\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 when it was humanly impossible for him and his dear wife to have a child.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3FHe believed God for the promised seed\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the Savior\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 even though he had been living the most undeserving life when God first called him to turn away from the world and follow God. This we shall see in the next note."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/124480?length=700"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "The memory of Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s name is precious (great) to believers because they know this: if they follow after the glorious promises given to Abram, then the great inheritance given to Abram will also become their inheritance.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93For the promise, that he should be the heir of the world, was not to Abraham, or to his seed, through the law, but through the righteousness of faith.\u8230\'85 Therefore it [righteousness] is of faith, that it might be by grace; to the end the promise might be sure to all the seed; not to that only which is of the law, but to that also which is of the faith of Abraham; who is the father of us all\u8221\'94 (Ro. 4:13, 16)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/122267?length=630"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\super 8\~}{\f0\fs24 And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93In you shall all the nations be blessed.\u8221\'94 }{\f2\fs24\b1\super 9\~}{\f0\fs24 So then, those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24  \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ga3.8&off=0&ctx=he+sons+of+Abraham.+~8%C2%A0And+the+Scripture%2c"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf4 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ga 3:8\endash 9). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}}