{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red70\green139\blue223;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb240\sl288\slmult0\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\cf1 "#God promised to protect and make Abram secure as he followed after God and His promises (v. 3a)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 Very simply stated, God promised to bless the person who blessed Abram and his descendants, and to curse the person who cursed Abram and his descendants. Who are the people who bless and curse Abram and believers?"}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/125746?length=213"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "The person who blesses is a person who either approves or accepts Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s journey of faith. Some persons would approve Abram\u8217\'92s decision to follow God and His promises, although they might not accept God themselves nor agree with Abram. "}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/125962?length=236"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "The person who curses is a person who disapproves and rejects, and in some cases fights against, Abram and his decision to follow God and His promises."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/126549?length=151"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "This was a great promise to Abram, and it is a great promise to everyone who begins the journey of faith, who truly follows after God and His promises. God promises to protect all believers as they journey toward the promised land. Any person who opposes them and their faith will be cursed, that is, defeated and doomed to failure. But all who wish them well will be blessed. The faith of all believers\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 both Abram and those who follow after him\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 will be rewarded: they shall all be victorious and reach their destination, the promised land itself. God will fulfill His promise to Abram and his descendants, the people of faith.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93For the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth, to show himself strong in the behalf of them whose heart is perfect toward him\u8221\'94 (2 Chr. 16:9)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/126701?length=791"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\cf1}