{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 The Call of Abram}
\par\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs36\b1 12\~}{\f0\fs24 Now the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  said to Abram, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Go from your country and your kindred and your father\u8217\'92s house to the land that I will show you. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 2\~}{\f0\fs24 And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 3\~}{\f0\fs24 I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 4\~}{\f0\fs24 So Abram went, as the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  had told him, and Lot went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 5\~}{\f0\fs24 And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s son, and all their possessions that they had gathered, and the people that they had acquired in Haran, and they set out to go to the land of Canaan. When they came to the land of Canaan, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 6\~}{\f0\fs24 Abram passed through the land to the place at Shechem, to the oak of Moreh. At that time the Canaanites were in the land. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 7\~}{\f0\fs24 Then the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  appeared to Abram and said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93To your offspring I will give this land.\u8221\'94 So he built there an altar to the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 , who had appeared to him. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 8\~}{\f0\fs24 From there he moved to the hill country on the east of Bethel and pitched his tent, with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east. And there he built an altar to the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  and called upon the name of the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 . }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 9\~}{\f0\fs24 And Abram journeyed on, still going toward the Negeb.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24  \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ge12.1&off=125"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ge 12:1\endash 9). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}