{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Christ in Genesis}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 But it is also a difficult mission. As it was difficult for Abram to leave his country, his kindred, and especially his father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s house (his immediate relatives), so Jesus declares that ours is a difficult mission. He says, \u8220\'93Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me; and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me; and whoever does not take up the cross and follow me is not worthy of me. Those who find their life will lose it, and those who lose their life for my sake will find it\u8221\'94 (Matt 10:37\endash 39). We may lose our life on this mission, but in losing it we will find it.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Jesus begins his Sermon on the Mount with a ninefold blessing for his people\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 just as God sent Abram on his mission with a complete set of blessings. Jesus proclaims:}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is }{\f0\fs24\i1 the kingdom of heaven.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Blessed are the meek, for they will inherit }{\f0\fs24\i1 the earth}{\f0\fs24 .\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 sake, for theirs is }{\f0\fs24\i1 the kingdom of heaven}{\f0\fs24 .\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \ri360\qr\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (Matt 5:3, 5, 10)}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The poor in spirit will find life in the kingdom of heaven; the meek will find life on the new earth; the persecuted will find life in the kingdom of heaven.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Did you notice, Jesus says that the meek \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93will }{\f0\fs24\i1 inherit}{\f0\fs24  the earth.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 The new earth will be the inheritance of God\u8217\'92s people. As Canaan was Israel\u8217\'92s inheritance, so the new earth will be God\u8217\'92s people\u8217\'92s inheritance. The new earth will be God\u8217\'92s gift to his people. John saw \u8220\'93the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.\u8221\'94 And he heard a voice from the throne saying,}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93See, the home of God is among mortals.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 He will dwell with them;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 they will be his peoples,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 and God himself will be with them.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \ri360\qr\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (Rev 21:3)}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 And then John sees Paradise on earth. He writes, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life, bright as crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb.\u8230\'85 On either side of the river is the tree of life.\u8230\'85 Nothing accursed will be found there any more. But the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship him; they will see his face\u8221\'94 (Rev 22:1\endash 4).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 One day this earth will again be like Paradise, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the garden of God,\u8221\'94 a wonderful place with plenty of food and drink, meaningful work caring for God\u8217\'92s creation, and above all, close fellowship with God. The restored earth will be God\u8217\'92s gift to his people.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 But the gift-character of the new earth does not diminish our calling today to reclaim the world for God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s kingdom. Jesus\u8217\'92 command still holds: \u8220\'93Go \u8230\'85 and make disciples of all nations.\u8230\'85 And remember, I am with you always, to the end of the age\u8221\'94 (Matt 28:19\endash 20). God gives his people the earth in order to reclaim it for the kingdom of God.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Greidanus, S. (2007). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/prchngchrstgnss?ref=Bible.Ge11.27-12.9&off=35250&ctx=%2c+glorious+mission!%0a~But+it+is+also+a+dif"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Preaching Christ from Genesis: Foundations for Expository Sermons\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 155\endash 157). Grand Rapids, MI; Cambridge, U.K.: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}