{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 The Beatitudes}
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b1
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 2\~}{\f0\fs24 And he opened his mouth and taught them, saying: }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 3\~}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 4\~}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 5\~}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 6\~}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 7\~}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 8\~}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 9\~}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 10\~}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness\u8217\'92 sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 11\~}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 12\~}{\f0\fs24 Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven, for so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Mt5.2&off=0&ctx=iples+came+to+him.+%0a~The+Beatitudes%0a2%C2%A0And"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Mt 5:2\endash 12). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}