{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 Abram and Sarai in Egypt}
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 10\~}{\f0\fs24 Now there was a famine in the land. So Abram went down to Egypt to sojourn there, for the famine was severe in the land. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 11\~}{\f0\fs24 When he was about to enter Egypt, he said to Sarai his wife, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I know that you are a woman beautiful in appearance, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 12\~}{\f0\fs24 and when the Egyptians see you, they will say, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91This is his wife.\u8217\'92 Then they will kill me, but they will let you live. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 13\~}{\f0\fs24 Say you are my sister, that it may go well with me because of you, and that my life may be spared for your sake.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 14\~}{\f0\fs24 When Abram entered Egypt, the Egyptians saw that the woman was very beautiful. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 15\~}{\f0\fs24 And when the princes of Pharaoh saw her, they praised her to Pharaoh. And the woman was taken into Pharaoh\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s house. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 16\~}{\f0\fs24 And for her sake he dealt well with Abram; and he had sheep, oxen, male donkeys, male servants, female servants, female donkeys, and camels. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 17\~}{\f0\fs24 But the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  afflicted Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s wife. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 18\~}{\f0\fs24 So Pharaoh called Abram and said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93What is this you have done to me? Why did you not tell me that she was your wife? }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 19\~}{\f0\fs24 Why did you say, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91She is my sister,\u8217\'92 so that I took her for my wife? Now then, here is your wife; take her, and go.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 20\~}{\f0\fs24 And Pharaoh gave men orders concerning him, and they sent him away with his wife and all that he had. }
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ge12.10&off=0&ctx=+toward+the+Negeb.+%0a~Abram+and+Sarai+in+E"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ge 12:10\endash 20). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}