{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red70\green139\blue223;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb240\sl288\slmult0\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "There was a famine in the land of plenty, the land flowing with milk and honey, a famine in the land to which Abram had gone in faith and obedience to God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s own command and word. Certainly here is a severe test of faith"}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/dhadvfth/38959?length=219"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "The moment we are willing to yield to the new light that God gives us, He moves us on to the next test; and each one makes us stronger in the faith"}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/dhadvfth/40582?length=147"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "The lesson taught here is that it is better to starve in the place where God wants you to be than to live in luxury, but not according to the will of God, in Egypt."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/dhadvfth/44226?length=164"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "There comes a disturbing situation, a famine in the land. How it must have troubled Abram. Was he not where God wanted him? Was he not in the place of fellowship? Then why a famine in the land? It was indeed a great test of faith, and Abram, we are sorry to say, failed, miserably failed. Instead of trusting God, he turned to his own reason, and sought the solution in the arm of the flesh. "}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/dhadvfth/43070?length=392"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "Abram first of all lost his sense of peace and security; he began to worry. He feared for Sarai his wife; for she was very beautiful, and he feared that these conscienceless Egyptians might kill him and take Sarai. How much better to have trusted the Lord in Canaan. "}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/dhadvfth/44524?length=267"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "When the Egyptians shall see thee \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85 they shall say, This is his wife: and they will kill me, but they will save thee alive.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Say, I pray thee, thou art my sister: that it may be well with me for thy sake; and my soul shall live because of thee (Genesis 12:12\endash 13).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 Is this the same man who trusted God, of whom we read, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93He was the friend of God,\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93the father of the faithful\u8221\'94? Yes, it is the same man\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 none other than this same Abram, Abram\u8217\'92s action only proves how deceitful the flesh is, even in the believer, and how we ought to be on guard against it every moment."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/dhadvfth/44812?length=570"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "The Bible knows no such thing as the eradication of the flesh while we are here below. It is still in us to overpower us the moment we are off guard and leave the place of perfect obedience. "}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/dhadvfth/45383?length=191"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "While Abram was unfaithful, God remained faithful. We might expect God to say, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Well, Abram, you got yourself into this mess, now you can stew in your own fat. I am going to give you up. I\u8217\'92m all through with you. I\u8217\'92ll call somebody else.\u8221\'94 Did God do anything of the kind? Listen to the record:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 And the Lord plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s wife (Genesis 12:17)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/dhadvfth/46487?length=402"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "God even allows mistakes to be committed by us in order that He may use those experiences and mistakes to prevent something more tragic later on."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/dhadvfth/50991?length=145"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s permissive will. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "We need to recognize this great fundamental truth, that God permitted Abram to be tempted and to fall, knowing that he would make this grievous error and commit a great sin, in order that God might use even this failure and this sin as a means of teaching Abram a still greater lesson which might prevent a still greater tragedy in his life later on."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/dhadvfth/50494?length=350"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "Abram trusted God to save him, but he could not trust God to keep him. Regarding his being kept, Abram felt that he had to do something himself. There are thousands of poor souls today who trust God to save their souls, and then think that they have to do the rest. They cannot trust God to keep them, even to the end."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/dhadvfth/56697?length=318"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "There is another lessson here. We trust God for eternal things, but we do not dare to trust Him for the material. We say, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Amen, hallelujah, Jesus is my Saviour; I know whom I have believed; hallelujah for salvation\u8221\'94 but the moment something goes wrong, all our joy is gone. One of the family gets sick; then we begin to doubt, and cannot trust the Lord any more."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/dhadvfth/57016?length=363"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "Here we have an incident that is tremendous in its lesson. A believer who is out of fellowship with God can do meaner and lower things than the sinner who has never been saved."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/dhadvfth/58483?length=176"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cf1 "We have the evidence here that Abram in a moment of doubt showed that the old nature and the old doubts were still present within him: he went down into Egypt. Other Biblical characters had similar experiences. We have but to recall the case of Noah and his drunkenness, David and his sin, Solomon and his wives, Peter and his denial of our Lord. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall.\u8221\'94"}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/dhadvfth/58994?length=406"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Therefore let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.1Co10.12&off=3&ctx=e+ages+has+come.+12%C2%A0~Therefore+v%EF%BB%BFlet+anyo"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf4 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (1 Co 10:12\endash 13). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}}