{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red70\green139\blue223;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb240\sl288\slmult0\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\cf1 "Historical & Cultural Background. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 Famines were not unusual in ancient Mesopotamia. Often caused by drought, famines jeopardized the food supplies of animals and people alike, and they quickly became a matter of life and death. Agriculture in Egypt was less dependent on rain than agriculture in Canaan: The regular flooding of the Nile provided water for crops. During times of famine, people living in Canaan often traveled to Egypt, knowing they would likely find food there"}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/36565?length=476"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "The Test\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 Just as he and Sarai had settled in their new home, severe famine struck the land. Abram was forced to choose: remain in the land of promise and risk death by starvation, or relocate temporarily to Egypt and risk death at the hand of foreign enemies. Abram had just received God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise that he would become a \u8220\'93great nation\u8221\'94 (Gen 12:2), but that future now appeared to be in jeopardy. Rather than standing firm in faith, Abram allowed fear to sway him, and he chose Egypt over God\u8217\'92s promise. Yet, as the Bible demonstrates again and again, God remains faithful to His promise and His people, despite their decisions."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/35946?length=618"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "Since the residents of Canaan often found refuge from famine in Egypt, staying in Canaan would have been illogical to Abram and Sarai."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/38675?length=134"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "Literary Context. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 Still, Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s decision to travel to Egypt revealed a surprising lack of faith, especially since it came directly on the heels of God\u8217\'92s call and promise to him (Gen 12:1\endash 9). "}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/38810?length=192"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "Literary Context\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Once in Egypt, Abram further demonstrated a lack of faith by instructing Sarai to pretend to be his sister\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 a decision spurred by Abram\u8217\'92s fear of Pharaoh. Despite this, God remained true to His promise and carried Abram and Sarai through Egypt unscathed."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/39225?length=253"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "On some level, Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s lack of faith was driven by the overwhelming instinct of self-preservation: He didn\u8217\'92t want to die. This also manifested as a lack of concern for Sarai. Abram persuaded her to participate in his deception, claiming that he would be killed if she did not. "}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/42137?length=277"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "On another level, though, Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s actions can be understood as an attempt to preserve the future promised in Gen 12:2\endash 3. In this light, Abram\u8217\'92s focus on his survival reflects a concern to neutralize threats against the fulfillment of God\u8217\'92s promise. How could a dead man father a great nation? This episode (and the parallel account of Gen 20) presents Abram struggling with fear\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the fear of losing God\u8217\'92s promised inheritance."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/42602?length=425"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "the pattern of these types of narratives suggests that all this was a result of Abram attempting to find some way to survive\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 either out of fear or out of a misplaced effort to fulfill God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise to him."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/45336?length=205"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "The story of Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s decision to go to Egypt rather than remain in Canaan raises several themes for those of us who, like Abram, try to live as followers of God. It reminds us that even the heroes of our faith sometimes allowed themselves to be moved by circumstance rather than conviction"}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/55416?length=289"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "Application\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93As we read these accounts, we can recognize times in our own lives when the choices we make seem to lead us off track and away from God. And yet, in such cases, God is still present and able to bring us through any circumstance. He is faithful to His promise."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/45714?length=253"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "Considering Hebrews 11 in light of Gen 12 reminds us that God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faithfulness accompanies our efforts to be faithful. As with Abram, God\u8217\'92s promise to finish the work He began in us cannot be deterred by our mistakes and shortcomings. God\u8217\'92s faithfulness to us, guaranteed by His grace, will carry us through until the day of Jesus Christ (Phil 1:6)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/56405?length=347"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "Living in response to God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s call requires that we continually purge ourselves of self-centeredness\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 or \u8220\'93self-preservation,\u8221\'94 as in Abram\u8217\'92s case. But God\u8217\'92s faithfulness to us ensures that even when we find ourselves off course\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 whether because of a decision made in fear or a sin that has overcome us\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 His grace will guide us back to His will. "}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/56753?length=339"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\cf1}