{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Genesis 20:8-13}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 8\~}{\f0\fs24 So Abimelech rose early in the morning and called all his servants and told them all these things. And the men were very much afraid. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 9\~}{\f0\fs24 Then Abimelech called Abraham and said to him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93What have you done to us? And how have I sinned against you, that you have brought on me and my kingdom a great sin? You have done to me things that ought not to be done.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 10\~}{\f0\fs24 And Abimelech said to Abraham, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93What did you see, that you did this thing?\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 11\~}{\f0\fs24 Abraham said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I did it because I thought, \u8216\'91There is no fear of God at all in this place, and they will kill me because of my wife.\u8217\'92 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 12\~}{\f0\fs24 Besides, she is indeed my sister, the daughter of my father though not the daughter of my mother, and she became my wife. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 13\~}{\f0\fs24 And when God caused me to wander from my father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s house, I said to her, \u8216\'91This is the kindness you must do me: at every place to which we come, say of me, \u8220\'93He is my brother.\u8221\'94\~\u8217\'92\~\u8221\'94 \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ge20.8&off=0&ctx=l+who+are+%E2%80%A2yours.%E2%80%9D+%0a~8%C2%A0So+Abimelech+rose+"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ge 20:8\endash 13). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}}