{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red70\green139\blue223;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb240\sl288\slmult0\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\cf1 "Comparing Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s actions to our own might cause us to wonder: Is our faith visible to those around us? Do we adequately testify to God\u8217\'92s continuing work in our lives?"}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/59680?length=167"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "Genesis 14 presents a different side of Abram. Instead of fleeing from danger, Abram displayed remarkable courage and faith. And this time, his actions brought blessing, rather than affliction, to the nations around"}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/60088?length=215"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "Gen 14 demonstrates how he would serve as a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93blessing\u8221\'94 to others (Gen 12:2) and how God would \u8220\'93bless those who bless\u8221\'94 him and curse \u8220\'93those who curse\u8221\'94 him (Gen 12:3). In defeating the invading kings, Abram protected the land of Canaan, rescued Lot, and restored the possessions of Sodom and Gomorrah."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/62955?length=299"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "The name Melchizedek (malki-tsedeq) likely means \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93my king is righteous\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93righteous king,\u8221\'94 which indicates his function at this point in the narrative. Abram had just exercised courageous faith, defeating a powerful army despite overwhelming odds. As the \u8220\'93righteous king,\u8221\'94 Melchizedek personified righteousness itself and appeared as a royal figure to bless Abram and recognize his triumph."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/66925?length=392"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "In defeating the Mesopotamian kings, Abram secured the safety of the land and its inhabitants, blessing the nations around him. Melchizedek\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s recognition and blessing of Abram shows that God had begun to make Abram\u8217\'92s name great and bless others as a result (Gen 12:2\endash 3)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/69946?length=270"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "Genesis 14 portrays Abram as a person living faithfully within God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promises. Abram\u8217\'92s actions showed that he had confidence and faith in God\u8217\'92s protection. In contrast to Gen 12:10\endash 20, Abram did not act out of fear or self-preservation; rather, he swiftly and courageously rescued Lot, trusting that God\u8217\'92s promise to make him a great nation would guarantee him success in defeating kings and emperors."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/71313?length=401"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "Our past failures or lapses of faith do not prevent God from using us to accomplish great things, whether in witnessing to His work in our lives or defeating armies of giants (see Psa 118:6; Rom 8:31). Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s life shows us that God can and will use us despite our weaknesses and failures (see 1 Cor 1:26\endash 31). This encourages us, like the Apostle Paul, to recognize that God\u8217\'92s grace is sufficient and that His power is made evident through our weakness (2 Cor 12:9)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/79637?length=393"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "In Colossians 3:17, Paul wrote, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus\u8221\'94 (esv). Paul recognized that when we live out our faith, others notice\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 and they benefit from our efforts. This was true in Abram\u8217\'92s life: The Canaanite priest-king Melchizedek recognized Abram\u8217\'92s courage and, more importantly, God\u8217\'92s hand in Abram\u8217\'92s victory. Our faith should not only affect us, it should affect those around us as we respond to God\u8217\'92s call to live as disciples of Christ (see Col 3:12\endash 15)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/80031?length=514"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\cf1 "In Genesis 14, Lot had fallen into trouble. In choosing to live near Sodom, Lot exposed himself to international conflicts and became the captive of warring Mesopotamian kings (Gen 14:12). The full effect of Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s decision becomes evident later with God\u8217\'92s destruction of Sodom (see Gen 19). "}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/62183?length=291"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\pard\plain \sa240\sb960\sl576\slmult0\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs48\cf1 "None of the kings of Gen 14:2 appear outside of the Bible."}
\par\pard\plain \sb240\sl288\slmult0\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/65224?length=58"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 Link}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\cf1}