{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 Abram and Lot Separate}
\par\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs36\b1 13\~}{\f0\fs24 So Abram went up from Egypt, he and his wife and all that he had, and Lot with him, into the Negeb. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 2\~}{\f0\fs24 Now Abram was very rich in livestock, in silver, and in gold. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 3\~}{\f0\fs24 And he journeyed on from the Negeb as far as Bethel to the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and Ai, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 4\~}{\f0\fs24 to the place where he had made an altar at the first. And there Abram called upon the name of the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 . }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 5\~}{\f0\fs24 And Lot, who went with Abram, also had flocks and herds and tents, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 6\~}{\f0\fs24 so that the land could not support both of them dwelling together; for their possessions were so great that they could not dwell together, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 7\~}{\f0\fs24 and there was strife between the herdsmen of Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s livestock and the herdsmen of Lot\u8217\'92s livestock. At that time the Canaanites and the Perizzites were dwelling in the land. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 8\~}{\f0\fs24 Then Abram said to Lot, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Let there be no strife between you and me, and between your herdsmen and my herdsmen, for we are kinsmen. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 9\~}{\f0\fs24 Is not the whole land before you? Separate yourself from me. If you take the left hand, then I will go to the right, or if you take the right hand, then I will go to the left.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 10\~}{\f0\fs24 And Lot lifted up his eyes and saw that the Jordan Valley was well watered everywhere like the garden of the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 , like the land of Egypt, in the direction of Zoar. (This was before the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah.) }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 11\~}{\f0\fs24 So Lot chose for himself all the Jordan Valley, and Lot journeyed east. Thus they separated from each other. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 12\~}{\f0\fs24 Abram settled in the land of Canaan, while Lot settled among the cities of the valley and moved his tent as far as Sodom. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 13\~}{\f0\fs24 Now the men of Sodom were wicked, great sinners against the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 . }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 14\~}{\f0\fs24 The }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  said to Abram, after Lot had separated from him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Lift up your eyes and look from the place where you are, northward and southward and eastward and westward, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 15\~}{\f0\fs24 for all the land that you see I will give to you and to your offspring forever. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 16\~}{\f0\fs24 I will make your offspring as the dust of the earth, so that if one can count the dust of the earth, your offspring also can be counted. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 17\~}{\f0\fs24 Arise, walk through the length and the breadth of the land, for I will give it to you.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 18\~}{\f0\fs24 So Abram moved his tent and came and settled by the oaks of Mamre, which are at Hebron, and there he built an altar to the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 . \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ge13.1"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ge 13:1\endash 18). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}