{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 5}{\f0\fs24  (13:1\endash 4) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Repentance}{\f0\fs24 : the fifth step in weak faith is repentance. Every believer who is weak in faith and wanders off needs to repent and return to God. By repenting and returning to God, the believer will, over a period of time, become strong in faith. God always receives the repentant believer and blesses him richly, ever so richly. God always forgives sin, no matter how terrible the sin has been, if the person repents\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 truly repents\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 and turns to the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  and begins to follow Him.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 This is exactly what happened to Abram. Note that Abram returned to God and the promised land. He could have returned to Ur of the Chaldees or to Haran or even to some other country and land. Unquestionably, he and Sarah were discouraged and downcast, feeling deep guilt, shame, and embarrassment. They were probably gripped by dread, apprehension, and even some fear, hating to face the members of their household and the laborers of their herds. But Abram and Sarah did exactly what was needed.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 a. They separated from Egypt, from the world of ungodliness and worldly lusts (v. 1).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 b. They repented and began their journey back to the promised land, to Bethel. Apparently, Pharaoh feared the God of Abram so much that he let Abram keep the gifts he had given for Sarah, hoping to pacify Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s God (v. 2). Note that Abram was very rich in livestock, silver, and gold.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Bethel was the place where Abram had begun his journey in the promised land and had built an altar for worship (vv. 3\endash 4). All this points to Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s repenting and turning back to God. In fact, Scripture clearly says that \u8220\'93Abram called on the name of the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 .\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 And when repentant believers call on the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 sincerely call\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  restores them, even to a more glorious position of blessing and service than before.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Ac. 3:19)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and pray God, if perhaps the thought of thine heart may be forgiven thee\u8221\'94 (Ac. 8:22)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves, and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways; then will I hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin, and will heal their land\u8221\'94 (2 Chr. 7:14)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him return unto the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1 , and he will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Is. 55:7)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93But to this man will I look, even to him that is poor and of a contrite spirit, and trembleth at my word\u8221\'94 (Is. 66:2)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Come, and let us return unto the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1 : for he hath torn, and he will heal us; he hath smitten, and he will bind us up\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Ho. 6:1)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1  is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart; and saveth such as be of a contrite spirit\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Ps. 34:18)}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge13.1-4&off=0&ctx=ed%E2%80%9D+(He.+12:11%E2%80%9313).%0a~5+(13:1%E2%80%934)+Repentanc"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 42\endash 43). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}