{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-720\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs28\b1 Abram Separated from Lot: Selfish Vs. Unselfish Faith, 13:5\endash 18}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (13:5\endash 18) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Introduction}{\f0\fs24 : Abram treated Lot like a son. Lot was Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s nephew. When Lot\u8217\'92s father, Haran, died, Abram took Lot in and reared him just as he would his own son. But as we shall see, Lot paid little attention to spiritual matters. This is what this passage is all about. The passage draws a sharp contrast between Lot and Abram, between a carnal, worldly believer and a spiritual believer. It gives us a picture of unselfish faith vs. selfish faith.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abram lived by faith; Lot lived by sight (Ge. 13:8\endash 9; 13:10\endash 11).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abram was giving and unselfish; Lot was greedy and selfish (Ge. 13:8\endash 9; 13:10\endash 11).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abram was humble and respectful; Lot was prideful and self-exalting (Ge. 13:8\endash 9; 13:10\endash 11).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abram sought after God and His promises; Lot sought after the bright lights, possessions, and pleasures of this world (Ge. 13:14\endash 18; 13:10\endash 11).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abram was spiritually minded; Lot was worldly minded (Ge. 13:8, 12; 13:10\endash 12).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abram looked for the heavenly city that is eternal, whose builder and maker is God; Lot looked for a worldly city that was built by man and offered the wealth, position, and bright lights of the world (He. 11:10, 13\endash 16; Ge. 13:12\endash 13).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abram became the father of all who believe (Ro. 4:11); Lot became the father of only two daughters who brought utter disgrace to his name (Ge. 19:33\endash 38).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abram was made \u8220\'93heir of the world\u8221\'94 (Ro. 4:13); Lot lost all his possessions in the fiery destruction of Sodom living the latter years of his life in a cave (Ge. 19:30).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge13.5-18&off=3194&ctx=+unto+the+Lord.%0a%0aE.+~Abram+Separated+from"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 44). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}