{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Leadership Ministries Notes on Genesis 13}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Remember: Lot was the son of Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s brother, Haran. When Haran died, Abram took Lot into his household. Thus, when Abram left Ur of the Chaldees for the promised land, Lot went with him (see Ge. 11:31). We know from Scripture that Lot himself, at some point, became a believer and began to follow after God and His promises. But Lot lived a carnal life, an extremely carnal and worldly life (2 Pe. 2:7\endash 8; see note\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 19:1\endash 38 for more discussion). The first sight of his carnality and love for the world shows itself in this passage. Obviously, Lot had become a wealthy young man through the years while he was with his uncle, Abram.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge13.5-7&off=81&ctx=+threefold+problem.+~Remember:+Lot+was+th"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 45). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn=Verse 6\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 However, the situation was now critical: there just was not enough good pasture to handle the large herds and flocks of the two ranchers. No matter how much they wanted to stay together, no matter how close their relationship, they needed to separate. Abram in particular recognized this. He was the one who was to suggest separating; this will be seen in just a moment.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge13.5-7&off=1518&ctx=+13:8%E2%80%939%3b+14:13%E2%80%9316).+~However%2c+the+situati"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 45). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn=Verse 7\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 b. Problem two: a conflict between the workers of the two men was being waged over the best pasture land and water holes. Note that the conflict was not between Abram and Lot; it was only between their laborers. The two men had not yet been drawn into the conflict; their relationship had not yet been affected. But Abram was wise enough to know that petty arguments and conflicts eventually affect everyone unless they are squelched in the beginning.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 c. Problem three: Abram and Lot were about to become a poor testimony to the world (v. 7). Note that the Canaanites and Perizzites were living in the same area. This means they were watching the conflict between the workers of Abram and Lot, probably wondering how the two large sheiks (ranchers) would solve the problem. It was just a poor testimony for men of the true God to allow a situation to exist that would cause severe conflict. Remember: one of the very purposes for God choosing Abram was for Abram to bear witness to the other nations, witness that there is only one living and true God, only one Savior and hope for man. Thus Abram knew that he faced a unique opportunity to bear witness to the surrounding neighbors. How he handled the situation would give either a strong witness or a weak witness for God.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge13.5-7&off=1889&ctx=n+in+just+a+moment.%0a~b.+Problem+two:+a+co"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 45). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn=Verses 8-9\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 a. First, Abram suggested the need for keeping peace between them and their workers. They were brothers and brothers should not fight; brothers should care for each other and look after each other. Abram knew that all kinds of trials and enemies were going to confront them as they followed God and sought the promised land. They were going to need one another; thus they needed to be at peace and ready to help when help was needed. The trials and enemies of life are just too great for brothers not to stand together against whatever confronts them. Abram knew this; thus he stepped forward to suggest peace before the conflict erupted into a crisis.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 b. Second, Abram offered to give the best pasture land to Lot, offered to sacrifice his right to claim the best for himself (v. 9). Abram had the right to choose first, and he deserved that right.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He was the older, the head of the family}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He was the person to whom God had promised the land}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He was the leader, the one who had led the pilgrims to the promised land}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 But Abram did an astounding thing: he offered the first choice of land to Lot. Abram gave up his claim to choose first. By this he illustrates perfectly what it means \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab to act unselfishly}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab to give sacrificially}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab to be humble and meek}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge13.8-9&off=142&ctx=y+doing+two+things.%0a~a.+First%2c+Abram+sugg"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 45\endash 46). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Abram had great faith in God. He had learned this lesson in the famine experience when he failed to trust God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s provision and went down into Egypt for help (Ge. 13:10f). Abram had learned that God would take care of him, that God expected the true believer to trust Him. Thus, Abram was now willing to seek God and His righteousness above all else, willing to trust God to take care of him even if Lot acted selfishly and usurped Abram\u8217\'92s rights and chose the best pasture land for himself.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge13.8-9&off=3339&ctx=+perhaps+to+God.%0a4)+~Abram+had+great+fait"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 46). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn=Verses 10-11\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Selfishly, Lot \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93lifted up his eyes\u8221\'94 to look for the best region of the land. Lot jumped at the chance to get the best region. The idea is that he }{\f0\fs24\i1 immediately}{\f0\fs24  lifted up his eyes and began to survey the land to see where the most watered and fertile region was. This should not have been the first thing he did, but it was. Lot was selfish and greedy. How can we say this? Because he should have \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93lifted up his eyes\u8221\'94 to Abram, the man of God and the head of the family, and insisted that he choose first. But Lot did not do this; in fact, there is no record that he even thanked or showed appreciation to Abram for the privilege of choosing first. Lot simply \u8220\'93lifted up his eyes\u8221\'94 and immediately began to survey the land, looking for the very best land to claim. Lot was filled with selfishness and greed, wanting the very best for himself despite the fact that the right to choose first belonged to Abram.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . What a selfish act! Keep in mind that Abram had taken Lot in and treated him like a son when Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s father died. Abram reared Lot, educated him and got him started in business. Most likely, Lot owed everything to Abram. Yet here Lot was usurping the right of Abram by failing to acknowledge Abram\u8217\'92s position and contribution to his life.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge13.10-11&off=383&ctx=te+what+Lot+did:%0aa.+~Selfishly%2c+Lot+%E2%80%9Clift"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 47). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 It was the land that had given rise to the infamous, ungodly cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. Note that the cities still existed; God had not yet destroyed them. Lot, no doubt, knew of their ungodliness; yet he was still considering the Jordan Valley.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Lot ignored the ungodly behavior of Sodom and Gomorrah. In blindness, he must have denied that their ungodliness would influence the spiritual life of his dear family.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 c. Selfishly, Lot chose all the best land for himself. He chose the whole plain of the Jordan River.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He selfishly chose the whole region, refusing to offer Abram at least part of the fertile plain of Jordan.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He foolishly chose the region where ungodliness flourished.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He selfishly chose material wealth over the safety of his family\u8217\'92s salvation and spiritual growth.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Note two striking lessons.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (1)\tab People move for all kinds of reasons: seeking a better position, job, scenery, more money, a larger house, and on and on the reasons could go. When believers move, they must always look at the spiritual impact of the move:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab the number of fellow believers within an area}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab the availability of Bible centered churches that really preach Christ}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab the moral and spiritual atmosphere of the community, schools, businesses, and institutions of the area}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab the worldly places that exist to tempt the children}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (2)\tab We must never be misled by appearance, by the lust of the eyes, and by what looks good. There is far more to life than the physical and material, far more than the bright lights, pleasures, possessions, positions, and wealth of this world. The things of this world do not satisfy the human soul: they leave the soul empty, dissatisfied, and unfulfilled. The only thing that satisfies the human soul is God and the things of God, things such as purpose, meaning, and significance; things such as love, joy, peace, goodness, faith, discipline, and control. The fulness of life comes only from God and from God alone; therefore, the major decisions of life must be made in light of God. What kind of decisions?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab where to live}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab where to work}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab where to go to school}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab where to go for recreation}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab where to worship}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab who to marry}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab who to fellowship with}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab who to date}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab what movies and TV programs to watch}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab what to wear and how to dress}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Every decision we make in life should be made by considering God, by considering the impact it will have on our spiritual growth and testimony for Him. Lot failed to do this; we must not.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge13.10-11&off=2999&ctx=onor%2c+and+wealth.%0a%E2%87%92+~It+was+the+land+that"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 47\endash 48). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn=Verses 12-13\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Abram lived where he could prosper spiritually; Lot lived where he could prosper within the world, where he could secure the world\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s possessions and enjoy its bright lights and pleasures. Abram continued his pilgrimage of faith: he refused to settle down, moving all around the land of Canaan}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge13.12-13&off=36&ctx=ldliness%E2%80%94Sodom%E2%80%94Lot:+~Abram+lived+where+he"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 48). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 But this was not all: Lot decided to settle down, and the place he chose for a home site was the worst place of all, near Sodom. What would make Lot do this? Money, greed, business\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 wanting the pleasures and possessions of the earth. The cities were just what they are today: places where the biggest markets for business transactions are.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab The cities had all kinds of markets for gold, silver, sheep, goats, camels, cattle, and other commodities. Lot, just as any businessman, needed these markets to keep his business flourishing and growing.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab The cities had all kinds of pleasures and possessions. Lot and his family desired the bright lights, pleasures, and possessions of the world. (Evidence of this is Lot\u8217\'92s wife: she just could not break away from Sodom and its pleasures, even at the risk of losing her life [Ge. 19:15\endash 26]).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab The cities also offered the opportunity for worldly position, honor, and recognition. Lot would later seek position and honor from the world. This is indicated by the fact that Lot was sitting at the gate of Sodom when judgment was about to fall upon Sodom. Sitting at the gate of a city was reserved only for city officials. The city gate was where city officials met to conduct the business of the city. At some point in time, Lot became a city official of Sodom (Ge. 19:1).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Now, what was wrong with Lot doing business within the cities of the land? Nothing. Abram, no doubt, transacted business within the cities of Canaan as well. He had to, for it was the only way he had to grow and increase his business holdings, and Scripture is clear: Abram had large holdings; he was very rich in gold, silver, and herds (Ge. 13:2). The wrong committed by Lot was this: he became part of the world. He not only lived in the world, he participated in its worldly pleasures and sins, its greed and wickedness. Lot moved right in with the worldly and ungodly of this earth.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge13.12-13&off=1959&ctx=nd+his+dear+family.%0a~But+this+was+not+all"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 48). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn=Verse 14-17\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Note when God spoke to Abram: after he had separated from worldly Lot. But God knew Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s heart, that Lot craved the worldliness of this earth, the bright lights, position, possessions and pleasures he had seen in the cities. Did Abram know that Lot had a worldly heart, that he was lusting after the things of this world? Scripture does not say. Thus God had to stir Abram to separate from Lot so that God could bless Abram. Scripture declares that God does not pour out His blessing upon a believer when he is unequally yoked with a worldly person (see 2 Co. 6:14\endash 18). Once Lot was separated from Abram, God could then speak to Abram and meet his need.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s presence and power are only available to those who are \u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab set apart\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 separated\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 from the world and the lust after its bright lights, pleasures, and possessions}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab set apart\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 separated\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 unto God, wholly given over to Him, to seeking Him and His promises\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge13.14-17&off=1061&ctx=h%2c+and+guidance.%0aa.+~Note+when+God+spoke+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 49). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Note how God rewarded Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faith: by His Word, by a vision of His great promises. God gave Abram strong assurance, a glorious vision of the promises. God told Abram to lift up his eyes, to look as far as the eye could see, and to look in every direction: north, south, east, and west. Note that Lot had also lifted up his eyes and looked, but there was a vast difference in what the two men saw (v. 10). Lot and Abram both lifted up their eyes and looked:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Lot lifted up his eyes to the world, but Abram lifted up his eyes to the promised land.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Lot lifted up his eyes in self-sufficiency, but Abram lifted up his eyes in trust.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Lot lifted up his eyes with a selfish, greedy desire for gain; Abram lifted up his eyes with a giving, sacrificial desire for unity.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Lot lifted up his eyes from an uncommitted, worldly heart; Abram lifted up his eyes from a committed, spiritual heart.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 c. Note the threefold reward given to Abram. This was the third time God reaffirmed His covenant with Abram.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1)\tab The reward of the promised land (v. 15. See note\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 12:1}{\f0\fs24\super c}{\f0\fs24  for discussion.)}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2)\tab The reward of the promised seed (v. 15. See note\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 12:2\endash 3 for discussion.) Note that the seed, the descendents, of Abram are to number as the sand by the seashore. This simply means that the grains of sand are so many they cannot be numbered, so Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s descendents down through the ages will be so many they will not be able to be numbered.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 3)\tab The reward of being able to claim the land (v. 17). Very simply, God told Abram to arise and walk throughout the land, throughout the length and breadth of it, and to claim every place his foot stepped.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge13.14-17&off=2628&ctx=hem%E2%80%9D+(Pr.+24:1).%0ab.+~Note+how+God+rewarde"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 49\endash 50). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn=Verse 18\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Stedfastness\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Obedience}{\f0\fs24 : Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faith continued on. Abram obeyed God and worshipped God. The idea is that he did just what God said: he moved about as a pilgrim, claiming the land wherever he went.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Note that Abram settled down for a while by the great trees of Mambre in Hebron. Mambre was the name of the man (an Amorite) after whom the area was named (see Ge. 14:13).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Note that Abram also built an altar in Hebron. This altar was both for worship and for a testimony to the surrounding people, a witness to the only living and true God. (See note, }{\f0\fs24\i1 Altar}{\f0\fs24 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 12:7\endash 9.)\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge13.18&off=10&ctx=+stepped.%0a6+(13:18)+~Stedfastness%E2%80%94Obedien"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 50). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24}