{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Calibri-Bold;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \li480\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 The attitude of believers towards riches}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li960\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 They acknowledge that their riches come from God}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/1Ch29.12"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 1 Ch 29:12}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1920\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 1 Chronicles 29:12 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  12}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Both riches and honor come from you, and you rule over all. In your hand are power and might, and in your hand it is to make great and to give strength to all. }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 See also }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Ec5.19-20"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Ec 5:19\endash 20}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1920\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Ecclesiastes 5:19\endash 20 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  19}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Everyone also to whom God has given wealth and possessions and power to enjoy them, and to accept his lot and rejoice in his toil\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 this is the gift of God. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 20}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  For he will not much remember the days of his life because God keeps him occupied with joy in his heart. }
\par\pard\plain \li960\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 They devote their riches to God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s service}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Pr3.9-10"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Pr 3:9\endash 10}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1920\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Proverbs 3:9\endash 10 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  9}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Honor the }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  with your wealth and with the firstfruits of all your produce; }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 10}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  then your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will be bursting with wine. }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 See also }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/1Ch29.1-9"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 1 Ch 29:1\endash 9}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0 ; }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Ac4.32-37"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Ac 4:32\endash 37}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1920\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 1 Chronicles 29:1\endash 9 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  1}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  And David the king said to all the assembly, \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Solomon my son, whom alone God has chosen, is young and inexperienced, and the work is great, for the palace will not be for man but for the }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  God. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 2}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  So I have provided for the house of my God, so far as I was able, the gold for the things of gold, the silver for the things of silver, and the bronze for the things of bronze, the iron for the things of iron, and wood for the things of wood, besides great quantities of onyx and stones for setting, antimony, colored stones, all sorts of precious stones and marble. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 3}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Moreover, in addition to all that I have provided for the holy house, I have a treasure of my own of gold and silver, and because of my devotion to the house of my God I give it to the house of my God: }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 4}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  3,000 talents of gold, of the gold of Ophir, and 7,000 talents of refined silver, for overlaying the walls of the house, }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 5}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  and for all the work to be done by craftsmen, gold for the things of gold and silver for the things of silver. Who then will offer willingly, consecrating himself today to the }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0 ?\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 6}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Then the leaders of fathers\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92 houses made their freewill offerings, as did also the leaders of the tribes, the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, and the officers over the king\u8217\'92s work. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 7}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  They gave for the service of the house of God 5,000 talents and 10,000 darics of gold, 10,000 talents of silver, 18,000 talents of bronze and 100,000 talents of iron. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 8}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  And whoever had precious stones gave them to the treasury of the house of the }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0 , in the care of Jehiel the Gershonite. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 9}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Then the people rejoiced because they had given willingly, for with a whole heart they had offered freely to the }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0 . David the king also rejoiced greatly. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Acts 4:32\endash 37 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  32}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Now the full number of those who believed were of one heart and soul, and no one said that any of the things that belonged to him was his own, but they had everything in common. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 33}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  And with great power the apostles were giving their testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 34}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  There was not a needy person among them, for as many as were owners of lands or houses sold them and brought the proceeds of what was sold }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 35}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  and laid it at the apostles\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92 feet, and it was distributed to each as any had need. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 36}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Thus Joseph, who was also called by the apostles Barnabas (which means son of encouragement), a Levite, a native of Cyprus, }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 37}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  sold a field that belonged to him and brought the money and laid it at the apostles\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92 feet. }
\par\pard\plain \li960\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 They support gospel work and workers}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Lk8.1-3"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Lk 8:1\endash 3}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0 ; }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Ac16.15"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Ac 16:15}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1920\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Luke 8:1\endash 3 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  1}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Soon afterward he went on through cities and villages, proclaiming and bringing the good news of the kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him, }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 2}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  and also some women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities: Mary, called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out, }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 3}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  and Joanna, the wife of Chuza, Herod\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s household manager, and Susanna, and many others, who provided for them out of their means. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Acts 16:15 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  15}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  And after she was baptized, and her household as well, she urged us, saying, \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay.\u8221\'94 And she prevailed upon us. }
\par\pard\plain \li960\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 They give to the poor}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/1Jn3.17"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 1 Jn 3:17}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1920\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 1 John 3:17 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  17}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  But if anyone has the world\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God\u8217\'92s love abide in him? }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 See also }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Lk19.8"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Lk 19:8}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0 ; }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Ac9.36-39"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Ac 9:36\endash 39}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0 ; }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Ga2.10"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Ga 2:10}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1920\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Luke 19:8 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  8}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  And Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor. And if I have defrauded anyone of anything, I restore it fourfold.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Acts 9:36\endash 39 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  36}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Now there was in Joppa a disciple named Tabitha, which, translated, means Dorcas. She was full of good works and acts of charity. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 37}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  In those days she became ill and died, and when they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 38}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Since Lydda was near Joppa, the disciples, hearing that Peter was there, sent two men to him, urging him, \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Please come to us without delay.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 39}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  So Peter rose and went with them. And when he arrived, they took him to the upper room. All the widows stood beside him weeping and showing tunics and other garments that Dorcas made while she was with them. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Galatians 2:10 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  10}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Only, they asked us to remember the poor, the very thing I was eager to do. }
\par\pard\plain \li960\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 They are generous}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/1Ti6.18"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 1 Ti 6:18}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1920\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 1 Timothy 6:18 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  18}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  They are to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share, }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 See also }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Dt15.10-11"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Dt 15:10\endash 11}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0 ; }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/2Co9.10-11"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 2 Co 9:10\endash 11}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1920\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Deuteronomy 15:10\endash 11 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  10}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  You shall give to him freely, and your heart shall not be grudging when you give to him, because for this the }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  your God will bless you in all your work and in all that you undertake. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 11}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  For there will never cease to be poor in the land. Therefore I command you, \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91You shall open wide your hand to your brother, to the needy and to the poor, in your land.\u8217\'92 }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 2 Corinthians 9:10\endash 11 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  10}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  He who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 11}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  You will be enriched in every way to be generous in every way, which through us will produce thanksgiving to God. }
\par\pard\plain \li960\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 They remain humble}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Jas1.10-11"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Jas 1:10\endash 11}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1920\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 James 1:10\endash 11 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  10}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  and the rich in his humiliation, because like a flower of the grass he will pass away. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 11}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  For the sun rises with its scorching heat and withers the grass; its flower falls, and its beauty perishes. So also will the rich man fade away in the midst of his pursuits. }
\par\pard\plain \li960\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 They do not trust in riches}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/1Ti6.17"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 1 Ti 6:17}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1920\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 1 Timothy 6:17 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  17}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  As for the rich in this present age, charge them not to be haughty, nor to set their hopes on the uncertainty of riches, but on God, who richly provides us with everything to enjoy. }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 See also }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Job31.24-28"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Job 31:24\endash 28}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0 ; }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Pr11.28"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Pr 11:28}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0 ; }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Je49.4"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Je 49:4}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1920\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Job 31:24\endash 28 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  24}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93If I have made gold my trust or called fine gold my confidence, }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 25}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  if I have rejoiced because my wealth was abundant or because my hand had found much, }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 26}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  if I have looked at the sun when it shone, or the moon moving in splendor, }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 27}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  and my heart has been secretly enticed, and my mouth has kissed my hand, }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 28}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  this also would be an iniquity to be punished by the judges, for I would have been false to God above. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Proverbs 11:28 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  28}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Whoever trusts in his riches will fall, but the righteous will flourish like a green leaf. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Jeremiah 49:4 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  4}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Why do you boast of your valleys, O faithless daughter, who trusted in her treasures, saying, \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8216\'91Who will come against me?\u8217\'92 }
\par\pard\plain \li960\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 They do not set their heart on riches}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Ps62.10"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Ps 62:10}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1920\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Psalm 62:10 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  10}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Put no trust in extortion; set no vain hopes on robbery; if riches increase, set not your heart on them. }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 See also }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Lk12.29-30"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Lk 12:29\endash 30}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1920\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Luke 12:29\endash 30 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  29}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  And do not seek what you are to eat and what you are to drink, nor be worried. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 30}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  For all the nations of the world seek after these things, and your Father knows that you need them. }
\par\pard\plain \li480\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Believers value heavenly riches most}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li960\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Mt6.20-21"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Mt 6:20\endash 21}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Matthew 6:20\endash 21 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  20}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys and where thieves do not break in and steal. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 21}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. }
\par\pard\plain \li960\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 See also }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Lk12.33-34"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Lk 12:33\endash 34}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0 ; }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/1Ti6.18-19"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 1 Ti 6:18\endash 19}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Luke 12:33\endash 34 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  33}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Sell your possessions, and give to the needy. Provide yourselves with moneybags that do not grow old, with a treasure in the heavens that does not fail, where no thief approaches and no moth destroys. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 34}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 1 Timothy 6:18\endash 19 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  18}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  They are to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share, }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 19}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  thus storing up treasure for themselves as a good foundation for the future, so that they may take hold of that which is truly life. }
\par\pard\plain \li480\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Examples of rich believers}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li960\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Abraham}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Ge12.1-3"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Ge 12:1\endash 3}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0 ; }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Ge13.1-2"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Ge 13:1\endash 2}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1920\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Genesis 12:1\endash 3 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  1}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Now the }{\f2\fs22\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  said to Abram, \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Go from your country and your kindred and your father\u8217\'92s house to the land that I will show you. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 2}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 3}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed.\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Genesis 13:1\endash 2 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  1}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  So Abram went up from Egypt, he and his wife and all that he had, and Lot with him, into the Negeb. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 2}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Now Abram was very rich in livestock, in silver, and in gold. }
\par\pard\plain \li960\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Solomon}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/2Ch1.11-12"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 2 Ch 1:11\endash 12}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0 ; }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/2Ch9.22"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 2 Ch 9:22}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1920\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 2 Chronicles 1:11\endash 12 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  11}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  God answered Solomon, \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Because this was in your heart, and you have not asked for possessions, wealth, honor, or the life of those who hate you, and have not even asked for long life, but have asked for wisdom and knowledge for yourself that you may govern my people over whom I have made you king, }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 12}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  wisdom and knowledge are granted to you. I will also give you riches, possessions, and honor, such as none of the kings had who were before you, and none after you shall have the like.\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 2 Chronicles 9:22 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  22}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Thus King Solomon excelled all the kings of the earth in riches and in wisdom. }
\par\pard\plain \li960\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Hezekiah}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/2Ch32.27-29"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 2 Ch 32:27\endash 29}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1920\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 2 Chronicles 32:27\endash 29 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  27}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  And Hezekiah had very great riches and honor, and he made for himself treasuries for silver, for gold, for precious stones, for spices, for shields, and for all kinds of costly vessels; }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 28}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  storehouses also for the yield of grain, wine, and oil; and stalls for all kinds of cattle, and sheepfolds. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 29}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  He likewise provided cities for himself, and flocks and herds in abundance, for God had given him very great possessions. }
\par\pard\plain \li960\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Job}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Job1.1-3"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Job 1:1\endash 3}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1920\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Job 1:1\endash 3 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  1}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job, and that man was blameless and upright, one who feared God and turned away from evil. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 2}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  There were born to him seven sons and three daughters. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 3}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  He possessed 7,000 sheep, 3,000 camels, 500 yoke of oxen, and 500 female donkeys, and very many servants, so that this man was the greatest of all the people of the east. }
\par\pard\plain \li960\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Joseph of Arimathea}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Is53.9"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Is 53:9}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0 ; }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Mt27.57-60"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Mt 27:57\endash 60}}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1920\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Isaiah 53:9 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  9}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  And they made his grave with the wicked and with a rich man in his death, although he had done no violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Matthew 27:57\endash 60 (ESV) \hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1  57}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  When it was evening, there came a rich man from Arimathea, named Joseph, who also was a disciple of Jesus. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 58}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  He went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate ordered it to be given to him. }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 59}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  And Joseph took the body and wrapped it in a clean linen shroud }{\f1\fs22\b1\i0 60}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had cut in the rock. And he rolled a great stone to the entrance of the tomb and went away. }
\par\pard\plain \ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0}