{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Calibri;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Calibri-Bold;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ri-720\sa100\sb100\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0 Peacemakers }
\par\pard\plain \li480\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b1\i0 The commendation of peacemakers}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li960\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Mt5.9"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Mt 5:9}}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b1\i0 Matthew 5:9 (ESV) \hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2  9}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. }
\par\pard\plain \li960\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b0\i0 See also }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Pr12.20"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Pr 12:20}}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0 ; }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Ro14.19"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Ro 14:19}}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b1\i0 Proverbs 12:20 (ESV) \hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2  20}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  Deceit is in the heart of those who devise evil, but those who plan peace have joy. }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b1\i0 Romans 14:19 (ESV) \hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2  19}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  So then let us pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding. }
\par\pard\plain \li480\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b1\i0 The importance of pursuing peace}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li960\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Ec10.4"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Ec 10:4}}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0 ; }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Ro12.18"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Ro 12:18}}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0 ; }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Tt1.6"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Tt 1:6}}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0 ; }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Heb12.14"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Heb 12:14}}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0 ; }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Jas3.17"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Jas 3:17}}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b1\i0 Ecclesiastes 10:4 (ESV) \hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2  4}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  If the anger of the ruler rises against you, do not leave your place, for calmness will lay great offenses to rest. }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b1\i0 Romans 12:18 (ESV) \hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2  18}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b1\i0 Titus 1:6 (ESV) \hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2  6}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  if anyone is above reproach, the husband of one wife, and his children are believers and not open to the charge of debauchery or insubordination. }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b1\i0 Hebrews 12:14 (ESV) \hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2  14}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  Strive for peace with everyone, and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord. }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b1\i0 James 3:17 (ESV) \hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2  17}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, open to reason, full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and sincere. }
\par\pard\plain \li480\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b1\i0 Examples of peacemakers}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  }
\par\pard\plain \li960\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Ge13.8-9"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Ge 13:8\endash 9}}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  Abraham; }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/1Sa25.14-31"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 1 Sa 25:14\endash 31}}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  Abigail; }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Es10.3"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Es 10:3}}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  Mordecai; }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://biblia.com/books/esv/Is53.5"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs22\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Is 53:5}}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  the suffering servant }
\par\pard\plain \li1440\ri-720\sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b1\i0 Genesis 13:8\endash 9 (ESV) \hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2  8}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  Then Abram said to Lot, \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Let there be no strife between you and me, and between your herdsmen and my herdsmen, for we are kinsmen. }{\f2\fs22\b1\i0 9}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  Is not the whole land before you? Separate yourself from me. If you take the left hand, then I will go to the right, or if you take the right hand, then I will go to the left.\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b1\i0 1 Samuel 25:14\endash 31 (ESV) \hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2  14}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  But one of the young men told Abigail, Nabal\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s wife, \u8220\'93Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to greet our master, and he railed at them. }{\f2\fs22\b1\i0 15}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  Yet the men were very good to us, and we suffered no harm, and we did not miss anything when we were in the fields, as long as we went with them. }{\f2\fs22\b1\i0 16}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  They were a wall to us both by night and by day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep. }{\f2\fs22\b1\i0 17}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  Now therefore know this and consider what you should do, for harm is determined against our master and against all his house, and he is such a worthless man that one cannot speak to him.\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8221\'94 }{\f2\fs22\b1\i0 18}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  Then Abigail made haste and took two hundred loaves and two skins of wine and five sheep already prepared and five seahs of parched grain and a hundred clusters of raisins and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on donkeys. }{\f2\fs22\b1\i0 19}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  And she said to her young men, \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Go on before me; behold, I come after you.\u8221\'94 But she did not tell her husband Nabal. }{\f2\fs22\b1\i0 20}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  And as she rode on the donkey and came down under cover of the mountain, behold, David and his men came down toward her, and she met them. }{\f2\fs22\b1\i0 21}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  Now David had said, \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Surely in vain have I guarded all that this fellow has in the wilderness, so that nothing was missed of all that belonged to him, and he has returned me evil for good. }{\f2\fs22\b1\i0 22}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  God do so to the enemies of David and more also, if by morning I leave so much as one male of all who belong to him.\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8221\'94 }{\f2\fs22\b1\i0 23}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  When Abigail saw David, she hurried and got down from the donkey and fell before David on her face and bowed to the ground. }{\f2\fs22\b1\i0 24}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  She fell at his feet and said, \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93On me alone, my lord, be the guilt. Please let your servant speak in your ears, and hear the words of your servant. }{\f2\fs22\b1\i0 25}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  Let not my lord regard this worthless fellow, Nabal, for as his name is, so is he. Nabal is his name, and folly is with him. But I your servant did not see the young men of my lord, whom you sent. }{\f2\fs22\b1\i0 26}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  Now then, my lord, as the }{\f1\fs22\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  lives, and as your soul lives, because the }{\f1\fs22\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  has restrained you from bloodguilt and from saving with your own hand, now then let your enemies and those who seek to do evil to my lord be as Nabal. }{\f2\fs22\b1\i0 27}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  And now let this present that your servant has brought to my lord be given to the young men who follow my lord. }{\f2\fs22\b1\i0 28}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  Please forgive the trespass of your servant. For the }{\f1\fs22\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  will certainly make my lord a sure house, because my lord is fighting the battles of the }{\f1\fs22\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0 , and evil shall not be found in you so long as you live. }{\f2\fs22\b1\i0 29}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  If men rise up to pursue you and to seek your life, the life of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of the living in the care of the }{\f1\fs22\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  your God. And the lives of your enemies he shall sling out as from the hollow of a sling. }{\f2\fs22\b1\i0 30}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  And when the }{\f1\fs22\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  has done to my lord according to all the good that he has spoken concerning you and has appointed you prince over Israel, }{\f2\fs22\b1\i0 31}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  my lord shall have no cause of grief or pangs of conscience for having shed blood without cause or for my lord working salvation himself. And when the }{\f1\fs22\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  has dealt well with my lord, then remember your servant.\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b1\i0 Esther 10:3 (ESV) \hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2  3}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  For Mordecai the Jew was second in rank to King Ahasuerus, and he was great among the Jews and popular with the multitude of his brothers, for he sought the welfare of his people and spoke peace to all his people. }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b1\i0 Isaiah 53:5 (ESV) \hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2  5}{\f1\fs22\b0\i0  But he was pierced for our transgressions; he was crushed for our iniquities; upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. }
\par\plain \f1\fs22\b0\i0}