{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Meekness}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 5}{\f0\fs24 . Now }{\f0\fs24\i1 the meek}{\f0\fs24  come in for attention (}{\f0\fs24\i1 JB}{\f0\fs24  and }{\f0\fs24\i1 REB}{\f0\fs24  have \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93gentle\u8221\'94). Meekness is another word for self-effacement. We should not miss the point that in all three of the opening beatitudes the truth is brought out that the follower of Jesus does not aggressively insist on his own rights but displays genuine humility. Meekness is not to be confused with weakness: the meek are not simply submissive because they lack the resources to be anything else. Meekness is quite compatible with great strength and ability as humans measure strength, but whatever strength or weakness the meek person has is accompanied by humility and a genuine dependence on God. True meekness may be a quality of the strong, those who could assert themselves but choose not to do so. The strong who qualify for this blessing are the strong who decline to domineer. Self-assertion is never a Christian virtue; rather, it is Christian to be busy in lowly service and to refuse to engage in the conduct that merely advances one\u8217\'92s personal aims.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The reward of the meek is that }{\f0\fs24\i1 they will inherit the earth}{\f0\fs24  (cf. Ps. 37:11). The verb points to firm possession; clearly there is no thought here of inheriting on the death of a testator or the like. There may be a reference to the psalm that contrasts the wicked, who \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93will be no more,\u8221\'94 with the meek, who \u8220\'93shall possess the land\u8221\'94 (Ps. 37:10\endash 11). The sense in which they will do this is not obvious. Tolstoy and others have spoken of \u8220\'93the terrible meek\u8221\'94 apparently because there are so many of the downtrodden that in the end the strong are not able to budge the inert mass and accomplish what they want to get done. But it is impossible to think that Jesus\u8217\'92 meaning is anything like that. Rather, the thought is eschatological; Jesus is looking forward to the coming of the messianic kingdom. In the end it is the meek, not the self-assertive, who will have a place in God\u8217\'92s kingdom. It has often been pointed out that the future in this and the following verses indicates certainty and not simply futurity.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Morris, L. (1992). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/pntcmatt?ref=Bible.Mt5.5&off=2022"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Gospel according to Matthew\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 98). Grand Rapids, MI; Leicester, England: W.B. Eerdmans; Inter-Varsity Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}