{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 arial,sans-serif;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red34\green34\blue34;\red17\green85\blue204;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 Three things are said about Lot\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s capture by the invaders:}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 1) Lot was actually living in Sodom, within the wicked city itself. From the first, Lot had been attracted by the bright lights and business opportunities which the city offered, and he had moved to the beautiful valley that surrounded the city: he had \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93pitched his tent toward Sodom\u8221\'94 (Ge.\~13:12\endash 13; see notes\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Ge. 13:5\endash 18 for more discussion). But note where Lot was now living: in Sodom. He had moved right in among the wicked people of the city; he had become a part of the worldly environment. He was participating in the bright lights, pleasures, and greed of the people.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 2) Lot lost all his possessions: his home, property, livestock, and money\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 all his wealth. Keep in mind that Lot had chosen the Jordan Valley to establish his livestock business because of the fertile pasture land and heavy population that assured a market for his livestock. (See note, pt. 1\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Ge.\~13:12\endash 13 for more discussion.) But now the invading army plundered, taking all the goods of the city. Lot was left with nothing, nothing but the clothes on his back.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 3) Lot was a prisoner of war. He was now a slave: he was being deported, being taken to some foreign land to serve as a slave to the invaders."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/256912?length=1239"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Link}}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 "Eight facts about the war are mentioned.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 a. The invaders were four kings from Babylon and Elam (Persia) (v. 1)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/252332?length=111"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Link}}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 "The defenders were five kings of Palestine, apparently the five major kings of the land (v. 2). Note that each city had a king: the government of the day was apparently what is known as city-states, that is, a city and its surrounding territory was governed by some ruler or some appointed body of persons.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 c. The battlefield was the valley of Siddim, the Salt Sea (Dead Sea) (v. 3). It was there that the armies faced off against one another. And note: the war was not a small battle. It involved much of the known world of that day: Elam (Persia), Babylon, perhaps Assyria, and some king of nations, some man who ruled over several nations\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 all joining an alliance against Palestine.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 d. The cause for the war was a revolt by the Palestinian states against the rule of a foreign government (v. 4). Chedorlaomer, the king of Elam or Persia, had conquered Palestine some twelve years before. For twelve long years he"}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/253057?length=914"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Link}}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 "had enslaved and taxed Palestine. Now, in the thirteenth year, the people of Palestine had had enough. When the time came for the taxes to be paid, they refused and rebelled. This left Chedorlaomer with no choice, for he had to protect his tax base and the trade routes that ran through Palestine down into Egypt and northern Africa.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 e. The brilliant strategy of the invaders is graphic. The following year (the fourteenth year) the Elamite army marched against the five Palestinian kings who had led the revolt. The author builds up the suspense of the battle. The prime target of the invading armies was Sodom and Gomorrah. The invaders took a wide sweep around the two cities, conquering the border cities first. One by one, the invaders drew the net ever so tightly around Sodom and Gomorrah. Looking at a map, the reader can see how the invaders took a wide sweep to the east and south; then swept up the southwest; then they swept back up to the northeast (which is by the western side of the Dead Sea). The final thrust was downward upon Sodom and Gomorrah. Note how the battles took place in various cities, one by one. Just imagine how the citizens of each rebel city would buzz about, sharing nervously the news of the fall of their neighboring cities\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 how the suspense and fear would build over the news of battle after battle and defeat after defeat \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 \bullet The Rephaims were defeated at Ashteroth-Karnaim (v. 5)}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 \bullet The Zuzims were conquered at Ham (v"}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/253972?length=1458"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Link}}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 "f. The major battle was fought in the valley of the Salt Sea, that is, the Dead Sea (v. 8).}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 g. The kings of Sodom and Gomorrah suffered a humiliating defeat (vv. 10\endash 11). The author specifically mentions what happened to these two kings, pointing out an unusual fact. They fled and hid out in the tar pits\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 bitumen or asphalt pits\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 while the rest of their army fled into the surrounding mountains (v. 10). The Hebrew word for \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93they fell\u8221\'94 can either mean to perish or to lower and humiliate oneself. The king of Sodom was still alive in verse 17, thus the meaning must be that the two kings were defeated in battle, utterly debased and humiliated. They had to crawl and hide out in the tar pits of the area. The valley of the Salt Sea (Dead Sea) was full of bitumen pits from which tar or asphalt was taken in ancient days.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 In taking time to share this fact, the author was probably pointing toward the future judgment of the two cities that were so infested with the disease of immorality, the basest sort of immorality, that of homosexuality (Ge. 19:1f; see Ro. 1:26f).}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 h. Lot was taken captive (v. 12). Remember, Lot was the son of Abram\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s brother, the son whom Abram had taken under his care to rear when his brother had died. Lot was, therefore"}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/255642?length=1247"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Link}}}