{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 arial,sans-serif;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red34\green34\blue34;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 3 (14:13) Faith\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Preparation: the wise preparation of courageous faith. As stated above, God made rare promises to}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 Abram and Abram believed God, even against all odds. Abram knew the odds, and he had anticipated the dangers that lay ahead of him as he laid hold of the promises of God (the promised land). No person lays claim to a land that is occupied by others without facing opposition. Struggle after struggle was to confront Abram. But note: he had prepared ahead of time. He had joined hands with others, made a covenant\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 a treaty\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 for mutual protection. The treaty was with the Amorite, Mamre, and his two brothers, Eshcol and Aner. Note that the valley where Abram and Mamre were living was named after Mamre.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 Thought 1. What a lesson for all believers! As we journey through life laying hold of the promises of God, we are confronted with struggle after struggle. Our only hope is to join hands with other believers for mutual protection. But we must prepare ahead, developing Christian fellowship and ministry. Then when the struggles come, we will know others who can stand with us, know them well enough that we can call upon them. This takes preparation, preparation ahead o"}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\super 12\~}{\f0\fs24 And though a man might prevail against one who is alone, two will withstand him\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 a threefold cord is not quickly broken. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ec4.12&off=0&ctx=ne+keep+warm+alone%3f+~12%C2%A0And+though+a+man+"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf4 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ec 4:12). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Bear one another\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ga6.2&off=4&ctx=too+be+tempted.+2%C2%A0r%EF%BB%BF~Bear+one+another%E2%80%99s+b"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf4 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ga 6:2). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0 The general principle is supplied in}{\f0\fs28\b1  }{\f0\fs24\b0 Galatians 6:2:}{\f0\fs28\b1  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i1 Bear one another\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s burdens, and so fulfil the law of Christ}{\f0\fs24\b0 .}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Notice the assumption which lies behind this command, namely that we all have burdens and that God does not mean us to carry them alone. Some people try to. They think it a sign of fortitude not to bother other people with their burdens. Such fortitude is certainly brave. But it is more stoical than Christian. Others remind us that we are told in Psalm 55:22 to \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91cast your burden on the Lord, and he will sustain you\u8217\'92, and that the Lord Jesus invited the heavy-laden to come to Him and promised to give them rest (Mt. 11:28). They therefore argue that we have a divine burden-bearer who is quite adequate, and that it is a sign of weakness to require any human help. This too is a grievous mistake. True, Jesus Christ alone can bear the burden of our sin and guilt; He bore it in His own body when He died on the cross. But this is not so with our other burdens\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 our worries, temptations, doubts and sorrows. Certainly, we can cast these burdens on the Lord as well. We can cast }{\f0\fs24\i1 all}{\f0\fs24  our care on Him, since He cares for us (1 Pet. 5:7, }{\f0\fs24\scaps av}{\f0\fs24 ). But remember that one of the ways in which He bears these burdens of ours is through human friendship.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 A striking example of this principle is given us in the career of the apostle Paul. At one stage in his life he was terribly burdened. He was worried to death over the Corinthian church and in particular about their reaction to a rather severe letter which he had written to them. His mind could not rest, so great was his suspense. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91We were afflicted at every turn\u8217\'92, he wrote, \u8216\'91\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 fighting without and fear within.\u8217\'92 Then he continued: \u8216\'91But God, who comforts the downcast, comforted us by the coming of Titus\u8217\'92 (2 Cor. 7:5, 6). God\u8217\'92s comfort was not given to Paul through his private prayer and waiting upon the Lord, but through the companionship of a friend and through the good news which he brought.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Human friendship, in which we bear one another\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s burdens, is part of the purpose of God for His people. So we should not keep our burdens to ourselves, but rather seek a Christian friend who will help to bear them with us.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Stott, J. R. W. (1986). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/bstus69ga?ref=Bible.Ga6.2-5&off=56&ctx=+Other+(verses+2%E2%80%935)%0a~The+general+principl"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf4 The message of Galatians: Only one way\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 157\endash 158). Leicester, England; Downer\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8217\'92s Grove, IL: InterVarsity Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}