{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 arial,sans-serif;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red34\green34\blue34;\red17\green85\blue204;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 When a brother is enslaved by some enemy, believers must arise to help free the brother, no matter how great the opposition. This was exactly what Abram did. But note: Abram could have found many reasons why he should not help Lot.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8658\'3FLot had done a terrible wrong against Abram: he had acted with greed and selfishly usurped Abram\u8217\'92s rights to the best land for his ranch.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8658\'3FLot had taken the best land for himself, leaving Abram to fend for himself on the less desirable land. (See outline and notes\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Ge. 13:5\endash 18 for more discussion.) Abram could have allowed harsh feelings to develop against Lot for having wronged him.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8658\'3FLot was worldly, attracted by the bright lights, pleasures, and possessions offered by the ungodly of the cities. Abram could have responded by saying that Lot was getting what he deserved, that God\u8217\'92s judgment was falling upon Lot because of his worldliness.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8658\'3FLot had been captured by a strong enemy, a large force of invaders. Humanly, it was impossible for Abram to rescue Lot.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 Note this striking fact: Abram refused\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 absolutely refused\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 to fall back upon these excuses. He did not even consider them. When he heard that his brother (spiritual brother) was taken captive, Abram immediately acted. "}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/263574?length=1221"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Link}}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 "Thought 1. Scripture is clear: when a brother is enslaved, we are to rescue him. No matter what the enslavement is, we are to be courageous: we are to arise and go after our brother. We are to do all we can to free him from his enslavement, from \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 \bullet immorality}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 \bullet drunkenness}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 \bullet drugs}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 \bullet gluttony}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 \bullet greed}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 \bullet selfishness}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 \bullet worldly ambition and power}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 \bullet lusting after possessions"}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/265137?length=372"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Link}}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 "Thought 1. We must always act with compassion and unselfishness. The reason is clear: God has made it possible for people\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 no matter what they have done\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 to be freed and fully restored through Christ."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/270011?length=198"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Link}}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 "6 (14:16) Compassion\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Unselfishness: there is the compassion and unselfishness of courageous faith. Abram rescued his brother, but this was not all. In compassion he rescued and brought back \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 \bullet all the people: the men, the women, and the children}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 \bullet all the goods and possessions}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 Abram could have kept everything for himself, but unselfishly, he returned everything to the people. And note: they were unbelievers, the terrible, immoral sinners of Sodom. Yet Abram freed them and returned their goods. Why? Because Abram knew that God has always had compassion upon man and acted"}}