{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 arial,sans-serif;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red34\green34\blue34;\red17\green85\blue204;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 The significant fact about Melchizedek is that he was a priest of God, the Most High God (El Elyon). Melchizedek was representing God and bringing the honor of God to Abram. Melchizedek\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s purpose was not to heap worldly praise and honor upon Abram, but to heap godly praise and honor."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/279546?length=284"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Link}}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 "Honor, Godly\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Tithing: the godly honor was represented in Melchizedek, the king of Salem or Jerusalem. (Salem is just a shorter name for Jerusalem, see Ps. 76:2.) Salem had not been attacked by the invading army so far as the record shows. But Melchizedek knew that the Eastern invaders could have returned to conquer not only Salem but all of Canaan. Thus, Abram had eliminated the danger of attack by defeating the invaders from the East. For this, Melchizedek was very thankful and appreciative. So he, too, gathered up his entourage and came out to express his deep gratitude for the great victory won by Abram."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/278930?length=615"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Link}}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 "Godly honor met the spiritual needs of Abram and his men (v. 19). How? The priest did the greatest thing he could do: he prayed for Abram and blessed him (v. 19).}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8658\'3FHe praised and blessed the name of the Most High God}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8658\'3FHe witnessed to the thousands who were with Abram}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 Remember, there were thousands of unbelieving Canaanites present when Melchizedek honored Abram: the prisoners who had been freed by Abram, and the soldiers of the Amorite chiefs who had joined forces with him. (see Ge.\~14:13, 24.) Note the blessing of Melchizedek:"}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/282354?length=535"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Link}}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 "Thought 1. What a unique opportunity to witness for God! And Melchizedek did not let the opportunity pass. He bore testimony to the Most High God before both the prisoners and the army. What a challenge to us: to be faithful in witnessing, to grasp every opportunity we can to proclaim the salvation of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/posbkjv01ge2/284559?length=340"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Link}}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 "worldly honor tempted Abram to compromise: to keep what he had gained for himself. "}}