{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 OpenSans-Bold;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 Abram Rescues Lot}
\par\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs36\b1 14\~}{\f0\fs24 In the days of Amraphel king of Shinar, Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of Goiim, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 2\~}{\f0\fs24 these kings made war with Bera king of Sodom, Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, Shemeber king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (that is, Zoar). }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 3\~}{\f0\fs24 And all these joined forces in the Valley of Siddim (that is, the Salt Sea). }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 4\~}{\f0\fs24 Twelve years they had served Chedorlaomer, but in the thirteenth year they rebelled. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 5\~}{\f0\fs24 In the fourteenth year Chedorlaomer and the kings who were with him came and defeated the Rephaim in Ashteroth-karnaim, the Zuzim in Ham, the Emim in Shaveh-kiriathaim, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 6\~}{\f0\fs24 and the Horites in their hill country of Seir as far as El-paran on the border of the wilderness. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 7\~}{\f0\fs24 Then they turned back and came to En-mishpat (that is, Kadesh) and defeated all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites who were dwelling in Hazazon-tamar. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 8\~}{\f0\fs24 Then the king of Sodom, the king of Gomorrah, the king of Admah, the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (that is, Zoar) went out, and they joined battle in the Valley of Siddim }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 9\~}{\f0\fs24 with Chedorlaomer king of Elam, Tidal king of Goiim, Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar, four kings against five. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 10\~}{\f0\fs24 Now the Valley of Siddim was full of bitumen pits, and as the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, some fell into them, and the rest fled to the hill country. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 11\~}{\f0\fs24 So the enemy took all the possessions of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their provisions, and went their way. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 12\~}{\f0\fs24 They also took Lot, the son of Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s brother, who was dwelling in Sodom, and his possessions, and went their way. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 13\~}{\f0\fs24 Then one who had escaped came and told Abram the Hebrew, who was living by the oaks of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol and of Aner. These were allies of Abram. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 14\~}{\f0\fs24 When Abram heard that his kinsman had been taken captive, he led forth his trained men, born in his house, 318 of them, and went in pursuit as far as Dan. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 15\~}{\f0\fs24 And he divided his forces against them by night, he and his servants, and defeated them and pursued them to Hobah, north of Damascus. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 16\~}{\f0\fs24 Then he brought back all the possessions, and also brought back his kinsman Lot with his possessions, and the women and the people. }
\par\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 Abram Blessed by Melchizedek}
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 17\~}{\f0\fs24 After his return from the defeat of Chedorlaomer and the kings who were with him, the king of Sodom went out to meet him at the Valley of Shaveh (that is, the King\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s Valley). }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 18\~}{\f0\fs24 And Melchizedek king of Salem brought out bread and wine. (He was priest of God Most High.) }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 19\~}{\f0\fs24 And he blessed him and said, }
\par\pard\plain \tqr\tx200\tx400\li960\fi-960\sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \tab \tab \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Blessed be Abram by God Most High, }
\par\pard\plain \li960\fi-320\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Possessor of heaven and earth; }
\par\pard\plain \tqr\tx200\tx400\li960\fi-960\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \tab }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 20\~}{\f0\fs24 \tab and blessed be God Most High, }
\par\pard\plain \li960\fi-320\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 who has delivered your enemies into your hand!\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }
\par\pard\plain \sb240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 And Abram gave him a tenth of everything. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 21\~}{\f0\fs24 And the king of Sodom said to Abram, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Give me the persons, but take the goods for yourself.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 22\~}{\f0\fs24 But Abram said to the king of Sodom, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I have lifted my hand to the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 , God Most High, Possessor of heaven and earth, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 23\~}{\f0\fs24 that I would not take a thread or a sandal strap or anything that is yours, lest you should say, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91I have made Abram rich.\u8217\'92 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 24\~}{\f0\fs24 I will take nothing but what the young men have eaten, and the share of the men who went with me. Let Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre take their share.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ge14.1&off=1680"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ge 14:1\endash 24). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}