{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 What, then, shall we do with the term }{\f0\fs24\i1 Hebrew}{\f0\fs24  here and elsewhere in the OT? It occurs thirty-three times in the OT. With the exception of Gen. 14:13 and Jon. 1:9, these references fall into three groups: (1) the time of Joseph and Moses while the Israelites are in Egypt; (2) Saul\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s wars against the Philistines; (3) the laws dealing with the emancipation of the \u8220\'93Hebrew\u8221\'94 slave (Exod. 21:2\endash 6; Deut. 15:12\endash 18; Jer. 34:9, 14). This term is frequently used by a non-Israelite when speaking to or about an Israelite (an Egyptian speaking, 5 times: Gen. 39:14, 17; 41:12; Exod. 1:16; 2:6; a Philistine speaking, 5 times: 1 Sam. 4:6, 9; 13:19; 14:11; 29:3). Conversely, eight times the term is used by an editor (or by an Israelite himself) to distinguish an Israelite from a foreigner (Gen. 40:15; 43:32; Exod. 1:15; 2:11, 13; 1 Sam. 13:3, 7 [?]; 14:21). Clearly, then, the word }{\f0\fs24\i1 Hebrew}{\f0\fs24  is used primarily as an ethnic term in the OT.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 There seems to be no good reason to depart from this understanding of }{\f0\fs24\i1 Hebrew}{\f0\fs24  in Gen. 14:13. Accordingly, Heb. }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u703\'3Fi\u7687\'3Fr\u238\'EE}{\f0\fs24  is the gentilic of }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u703\'3F\u275\'65 \u7687\'3Fer}{\f0\fs24 , and here it distinguishes Abram from other residents already living in Canaan. He is a descendant of Eber of the line of Shem.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1990). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge1?ref=BibleBHS.Ge14.13&off=1857&ctx=nd+vocalic+(a+%E2%86%92+i).%0a~What%2c+then%2c+shall+we"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 1\endash 17\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 405). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}