{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Others think it is an ethnic term, connected with Eber, the last ancestor in the line of Shem before the earth is divided (10:21\endash 25). The latter is the preferred meaning based on the following: (1) The form (}{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u703\'3Fi\u7687\'3Fr\u238\'EE}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ) consists of }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u703\'3Fe\u7687\'3Fer}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  + a gentilic }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u238\'EE}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , like Israeli or Israelite from Israel; (2) this form is appropriate with the proper name Eber, not with }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u703\'3Fapiru}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ; (3) the term always occurs in opposition to other ethnic groups, especially the Egyptians and Philistines; (4) though landless, the other characteristics of Abraham do not fit the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u703\'3Fapiru}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . The Bible ascribes the term only to Abraham and his descendants to show that they are the legitimate descendants of Shem through Eber.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge14.13&off=645&ctx=less+(see+Gen.+23).+~Others+think+it+is+a"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 231). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 tenth.}{\f0\fs24  This is a one-time tithe of the booty (cf. Num. 31:25\endash 41), not an annual tithe to the priest (cf. Lev. 27:30\endash 33; Num. 18:21). Tithing is an old and ancient practice in the biblical world (see 7:2). Kedorlaomer\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s tribute is paid as a tithe to the Lord! With the institution of monarchy, a greedy king demands the annual tithe along with the priest (1 Sam. 8:15, 17). The text does not suggest that Melchizedek has come to collect his tithe, though some foist that suggestion upon it. Melchizedek celebrates Abraham as God\u8217\'92s warrior and blesses him. Abraham recognizes Melchizedek as the legitimate priest and king of his God.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 everything.}{\f0\fs24  This refers to the booty.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge14.20&off=204&ctx=ing+the+two+scenes.%0a~tenth.+This+is+a+one"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 235). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}