{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Scriptures}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Hebrews 13:5\endash 6}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 5}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 Keep your life free from love of money, and be content with what you have, for he has said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I will never leave you nor forsake you.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 6}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 So we can confidently say, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The Lord is my helper; I will not fear; what can man do to me?\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Keep watch on yourself, lest you too be tempted.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ga6.1&off=29&ctx=Another%E2%80%99s+Burdens%0a6%C2%A0~Brothers%2c1+o%EF%BB%BFif+%E2%80%A2any"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ga 6:1). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 Matthew 5:16}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 16}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 2 Corinthians 12:7\endash 10}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 7}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 So to keep me from becoming conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given me in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from becoming conceited. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 8}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this, that it should leave me.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 9}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 But he said to me, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.\u8221\'94 Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 10}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 For the sake of Christ, then, I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. For when I am weak, then I am strong.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}