{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Genesis 15:1\endash 21}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  After these things the word of the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  came to Abram in a vision: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Fear not, Abram, I am your shield; your reward shall be very great.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 2}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  But Abram said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93O Lord }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps God}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , what will you give me, for I continue childless, and the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus?\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 3}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  And Abram said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Behold, you have given me no offspring, and a member of my household will be my heir.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 4}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  And behold, the word of the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  came to him: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93This man shall not be your heir; your very own son shall be your heir.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 5}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  And he brought him outside and said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Look toward heaven, and number the stars, if you are able to number them.\u8221\'94 Then he said to him, \u8220\'93So shall your offspring be.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 6}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  And he believed the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , and he counted it to him as righteousness. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 7}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  And he said to him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I am the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  who brought you out from Ur of the Chaldeans to give you this land to possess.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 8}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  But he said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93O Lord }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps God}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , how am I to know that I shall possess it?\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 9}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  He said to him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Bring me a heifer three years old, a female goat three years old, a ram three years old, a turtledove, and a young pigeon.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 10}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  And he brought him all these, cut them in half, and laid each half over against the other. But he did not cut the birds in half. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 11}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  And when birds of prey came down on the carcasses, Abram drove them away.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 12}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  As the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell on Abram. And behold, dreadful and great darkness fell upon him. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 13}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Then the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  said to Abram, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Know for certain that your offspring will be sojourners in a land that is not theirs and will be servants there, and they will be afflicted for four hundred years. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 14}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  But I will bring judgment on the nation that they serve, and afterward they shall come out with great possessions. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 15}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  As for you, you shall go to your fathers in peace; you shall be buried in a good old age. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 16}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  And they shall come back here in the fourth generation, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 17}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  When the sun had gone down and it was dark, behold, a smoking fire pot and a flaming torch passed between these pieces. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 18}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  On that day the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  made a covenant with Abram, saying, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93To your offspring I give this land, from the river of Egypt to the great river, the river Euphrates, }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 19}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  the land of the Kenites, the Kenizzites, the Kadmonites, }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 20}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Rephaim, }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 21}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Girgashites and the Jebusites.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}