{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Matthew 10:28\endash 29}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 28}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  And do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 29}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your Father.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs36\b1\i0 14\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God; believe also in me. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 2\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In my Father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 3\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, that where I am you may be also\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Jn14.1&off=42&ctx=Truth%2c+and+the+Life%0a~14%C2%A0d%E2%80%9CLet+not+your+he"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Jn 14:1\endash 3). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 8\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a place that he was to receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 9\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 By faith he went to live in the land of promise, as in a foreign land, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, heirs with him of the same promise. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 10\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 For he was looking forward to the city that has foundations, whose designer and builder is God.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Heb11.8&off=0&ctx=at+comes+by+faith.+%0a~8%C2%A0By+faith+q%EF%BB%BFAbraham"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Heb 11:8\endash 10). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 13\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 These all died in faith, not having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar, and having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 14\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 For people who speak thus make it clear that they are seeking a homeland. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 15\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 If they had been thinking of that land from which they had gone out, they would have had opportunity to return. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 16\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 But as it is, they desire a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared for them a city. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Heb11.13&off=0&ctx=d+by+the+seashore.+%0a~13%C2%A0These+all+died+in"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Heb 11:13\endash 16). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 10\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 But the day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done on it will be exposed. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 11\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness, }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 12\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be set on fire and dissolved, and the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn! }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 13\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 But according to his promise we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.2Pe3.10&off=0&ctx=d+reach+repentance.+~10%C2%A0But+z%EF%BB%BFthe+day+of+"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (2 Pe 3:10\endash 13). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tqr\tx200\tx400\li960\fi-960\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, }
\par\pard\plain \li960\fi-320\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ps18.2&off=4&ctx=%2c+my+strength.+%0a+2%C2%A0+~The+Lord+is+my+i%EF%BB%BFroc"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ps 18:2). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 3\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 4\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Re21.3&off=0&ctx=ed+for+her+husband.+~3%C2%A0And+I+heard+a+loud"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Re 21:3\endash 4). Wheaton, IL: Crossway Bibles.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Righteousness Through Faith}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super 21\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 But now apart from the law the righteousness of God has been made known, to which the Law and the Prophets testify. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super 22\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This righteousness is given through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. There is no difference between Jew and Gentile, }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super 23\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super 24\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 and all are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super 25\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 God presented Christ as a sacrifice of atonement,\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super m}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  through the shedding of his blood\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 to be received by faith. He did this to demonstrate his righteousness, because in his forbearance he had left the sins committed beforehand unpunished\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super 26\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 he did it to demonstrate his righteousness at the present time, so as to be just and the one who justifies those who have faith in Jesus. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/niv2011?ref=BibleNIV.Ro3.21&off=0&ctx=ious+of+our+sin.%EF%BB%BFa+%0a~Righteousness+Throug"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The New International Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2011). (Ro 3:21\endash 26). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super 26\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 So in Christ Jesus you are all children of God through faith, }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super 27\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 for all of you who were baptized into Christ have clothed yourselves with Christ. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super 28\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 There is neither Jew nor Gentile, neither slave nor free, nor is there male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super 29\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 If you belong to Christ, then you are Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s seed, and heirs according to the promise. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/niv2011?ref=BibleNIV.Ga3.26&off=0&ctx=nder+a+guardian.%EF%BB%BFl+%0a~26%C2%A0So+in+Christ+Jesu"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The New International Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2011). (Ga 3:26\endash 29). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 who by God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.1Pe1.5&off=2&ctx=n+heaven+for+you%2c+5%C2%A0~who+by+God%E2%80%99s+power+a"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (1 Pe 1:5). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}}