{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Following God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs32 Setting the Stage}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b1 Theme.}{\f0\fs24  It\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s only natural to have doubts after someone has promised us the same thing time and again but hasn\u8217\'92t followed through. It can be difficult to maintain patience in the wake of disappointed expectation. Inaction, whether real or perceived, can erode trust and confidence. Eventually, we need an incredible amount of assurance before we can accept that person\u8217\'92s word again.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 In Genesis 15\endash 16, Abram expressed this kind of doubt regarding God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise of a son. God\u8217\'92s promise remained unfulfilled, and Abram needed new reassurance from God. But even after God provided this reassurance, Abram and Sarai still hesitated to fully trust that He would keep His word. They came up with a plan to overcome Sarai\u8217\'92s barrenness and provide Abram with the son he longed for. Ultimately, they looked beyond the promise and took matters into their own hands.}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b1 Literary Context.}{\f0\fs24  The opening verses of Gen 15 indicate that Abram had lost his sense of confidence. Previously, Abram exhibited great faith in rescuing Lot and defeating several kings in battle (Gen 14:1\endash 16). God recognized this faith and ensured Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s success, causing him to be victorious (Gen 14:20). Genesis 15 opens with God encouraging Abram to continue trusting in Him. God tells Abram, \u8220\'93I am your shield,\u8221\'94 alluding to Abram\u8217\'92s military victory (Gen 15:1). Abram\u8217\'92s response, however, reveals a surprising amount of insecurity, especially given his recent battlefield success. Indicating his sense of doubt, Abram reminds God that he is still childless (Gen 15:2).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 In earlier chapters, God had repeated His promise to Abram several times in different forms. He had originally promised to make Abram a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93great nation\u8221\'94 and to make his name great (Gen 12:1\endash 3). He had also promised to give the land of Canaan to Abram\u8217\'92s offspring (Gen 12:7). Later, God promised Abram that his offspring would be as numerous as the \u8220\'93dust of the earth\u8221\'94 (Gen 13:14\endash 17). However, time had passed, and Abram and Sarai still lacked a child.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 This delay caused Abram to doubt. He wondered if perhaps his servant, Eliezer, was supposed to be his heir and inherit the land God had promised him. Abram bluntly explained the problem to God: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Look, you have not given me a descendant\u8221\'94 (Gen 15:3). God responded not with rebuke\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 although this would have been justified\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 but with reassurance. In repeating the promise yet again, God explicitly stated that Abram\u8217\'92s }{\f0\fs24\i1 own}{\f0\fs24  son would be the heir (Gen 15:4). Abram responded by trusting in God (Gen 15:6), and God led Abram in a ritual confirming the covenant promise (Gen 15:9\endash 20).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 In Genesis 16, despite God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s confirmation, we find Abram again doubting that God would fulfill His promise. Sarai proposed that Abram take her servant, Hagar, and have children with her (Gen 16:2). Abram agreed, and Hagar conceived (Gen 16:3\endash 4). Hagar\u8217\'92s pregnancy caused strife between her and Sarai, who sent Hagar away (Gen 16:5\endash 6). God intervened, and Hagar returned to give birth to Ishmael (Gen 16:15)\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Grigoni, M. R., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/csabraham?ref=Bible.Ge15.1-21&off=2150"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Abraham: Following God\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Ge 15:1\endash 16:15). Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}