{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 arial,sans-serif;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red34\green34\blue34;\red17\green85\blue204;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 "This part of Abram\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s story powerfully illustrates this lesson for us. Sensing delay, Abram voiced his concern about not yet having a son (Gen 15:2\endash 3). God met Abram at the point of his need and responded to him in loving, tangible ways. He went to great lengths to provide Abram with the assurance he needed and to make His promise alive to Abram again. "}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/102362?length=354"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Link}}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 "And so too the Christian today, who seeks for assurance, can but go to Calvary where God seems to say, \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93There is the evidence of my love. If you can stand before Calvary and still doubt that I love you, still doubt that My Word is true, there is nothing else that I can possibly do for you.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 It must be impressed upon our minds that to ask for anything more than the simple word of the living God and Calvary is an insult to the Almighty and an example of our own doubt. When Abram asked God for further assurance, God gave him a picture of Calvary and confirmed His covenant. Today there is a"}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/dhadvfth/144631?length=593"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Link}}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 "Today there is a great tendency for men not to be satisfied with the Word of God, but to look for other evidences, emotional experiences and disturbances, mental experiences and fleshly manifestations. Men want to have feelings and see signs and wonders and miracles, and have all sorts of strange dreams and visions and manifestations; but God says in effect, \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93All these things are dishonoring to Me.\u8221\'94 "}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/dhadvfth/145208?length=403"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Link}}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 "He wants nothing more than for us to believe the record of His Word. Again we refer you to that passage in 1 John 5:9:}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater: for this is the witness of God which he hath testified of his Son.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 He that believeth on the Son of God hath the witness in himself: he that believeth not God hath made him a liar; because he believeth not the record that God gave of his Son.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 Let us be satisfied only with His Word and with the record of what He has done through Jesus Christ."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/dhadvfth/145611?length=526"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Link}}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 "Even when we sense delay and attempt to speed up God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s plan, He sovereignly brings about His promises according to His perfect timing."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/102225?length=134"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Link}}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 "Just as we do when we think we cannot wait on God any longer, they took action on their own and produced an heir for Abram before God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s appointed time. Impatient decisions often lead to unforeseen consequences; the actions of Abram and Sarai brought a child into a situation of conflict and discord. Even before his birth, Ishmael was marked as one who would \u8220\'93live in hostility with all his brothers\u8221\'94 (Gen\~16:12)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/103251?length=413"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Link}}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0\cf3 "When our \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93thousand years\u8221\'94 seem to be without end, God wishes for us to submit to His timing. When our patience is tried, Abram\u8217\'92s example helps us recall that \u8220\'93the Lord is not delaying the promise\u8221\'94; rather, He is simply bringing about His plan according to His flawless design (2 Pet 3:9)."}
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/o/csabraham/103665?length=288"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf4 Link}}
\par\pard\plain \sb40\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK ""}{\fldrslt}}}