{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0      \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93After these things the word of the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  came to Abram in a vision: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Fear not, Abram, I am your shield; your reward shall be very great\u8217\'92\u8221\'94 (Genesis 15:1). On the heels of a great military victory and grand recognition by Melchizedek, God commands Abram to not allow himself to be overcome with fear. We know that Abram succumbed to fear while in Egypt, but what circumstance might be tempting him to succumb at this point in time? Did have a close call with death during the most recent battle? Did he fear retaliation from the mighty powers he just defeated? Whatever the source, the Lord wants Abram to depend upon him for safety and security. When God first called Abram, He promised \u8220\'93I will bless those who bless you and whoever curses you I will curse\u8221\'94 (Genesis 12:3). Melchizedek acknowledged that God delivered Abram\u8217\'92s enemies into his hand. Now God reaffirms his commitment to protect Abram and to shield him from all the dangers on his faith journey. God will not allow any enemies to defeat Abram and nullify His promises. God will continually guide and reassure Abram so that he will not give up and lose faith during difficult times. We must remember that God continues to protect, help, and strengthen us today. Instead of looking corporations and governments to ease our fears, we should adopt the attitude of David who wrote \u8220\'93the Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold\u8221\'94 (Psalms 18:2).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0      In addition to encouraging Abram to continue to trust in Him, God promises to reward him greatly. The NIV translates the reward as being God Himself! Surely, God will reward Abram with innumerable offspring and earthly treasures but there no greater treasure than having the Lord himself as God. A loving relationship with God is more precious than all of the temporal things of this life. Satan deceives people into thinking that fulfillment can be found apart from God. This leads to a life of emptiness and meaninglessness. As God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s children, each day we ought to rejoice in the Lord, no matter what life circumstances we find ourselves in. As an incentive to faithful service, we should reflect on the wonderful picture of ultimate fullness found in Revelation 21:3 - \u8220\'93And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, \u8216\'91Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away\u8217\'92\u8221\'94.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0      }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0      }}