{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s response indicates that the reward God speaks of includes offspring: \u8220\'93O Lord }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps God}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , what will you give me, for I continue childless, and the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus?\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Genesis 15:2). Abram goes on to express a sense of hopelessness. God\u8217\'92s delay has led Abram to conclude that it looks like his chief servant, Eliezer, will end up being his heir. Waltke writes that there is \u8220\'93some evidence that in Abram\u8217\'92s culture a childless man could adopt someone to be the guardian and heir of his estate as compensation for the person\u8217\'92s performing the duties of a son. If a son was subsequently born, the adopted man could not disinherit the natural }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://1DFAE4F2-1BC6-4898-AAE7-AE1E127C2361"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 son\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . It appears that Abram has an alternate plan in place should he and Sarai fail to conceive a son. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 However, God reassured Abram that he and Sarai will give birth to a son who will be his heir. In the midst of Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s concern about not yet having a son, the Lord takes him outside during the night and tells him that he will produce as many offspring as the number of stars in the sky! Abram\u8217\'92s response reveals the reason why he is called the father of the faithful: \u8220\'93And he believed the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , and he counted it to him as righteousness\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Genesis 15:6). Abram paid more attention to God\u8217\'92s promise than to the fact that he and Sarai seemed to be rapidly passing the age of childbearing. Instead of focusing on Sarai\u8217\'92s barrenness, Abram trusted God\u8217\'92s ability and willingness to bless them with a son. Paul describes Abram\u8217\'92s faith as being \u8220\'93fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised\u8221\'94 (Romans 4:21). Because of his faith, God declared Abram righteous (or justified).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 What was true of Abram is true of us today. All of us have sinned and fallen short of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s glory. We have created a debt with God that we can never repay. We all stand guilty in God\u8217\'92s courtroom. However, God promises to make us righteous through the work of Jesus Christ (Romans 3:21-25). God calls us to completely trust his promise and to fix our eyes upon Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith (Hebrews 12:2). Jack Cottrell provides a helpful analogy of justifying }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://CC5D7CB2-C63A-467F-8A0A-8E0F83D84B21"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 faith}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . It is not easy for a drowning person to relax and let a lifeguard to take control of him in order to pull him to safety. The drowning person will instinctly continue to try to save self, thus hindering the lifeguard\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s efforts. In order to be saved, the person must allow the lifeguard to do what he is trained to do. In the same manner, if we want to be made righteous like Abram, we must give up trying to save ourselves. Instead, we must fully accept and rest in God\u8217\'92s gracious promise of forgiveness through Jesus. The apostle Paul wrote, \u8220\'93So in Christ Jesus you are all children of God through faith, for all of you who were baptized into Christ have clothed yourselves with Christ\u8221\'94 (Galatians 3:26-27). It is through faith that we become Abram\u8217\'92s seed and heir according to the promise God gave to him (Galatians 3:28-29).}}