{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abraham believed God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise concerning offspring, but he asks for tangible proof that the land will become his (Genesis 15:8). What follows is a covenant ritual ceremony initiated by the Lord, who instructs Abraham to bring him a heifer, a female goat, a ram, a turtledove, and a young pigeon. The ceremony proceeded with Abraham cutting the large animals in half, laying the pieces in opposite rows with the birds at opposite ends. Abraham falls into a divinely induced deep sleep at sunset and for the first time the Lord gives him the specific details of how he will possess the land of Canaan. God reveals to Abraham that himself will not possess it, but that his offspring will come into possession of the land after four hundred years of servitude in another land. Their return to Canaan will be the occasion of God judging the Amorites (representative of the ten nations listed in Genesis 15:19-21). When the Amorite culture becomes totally saturated with sin, God will use Abraham\u8217\'92s offspring to dispossess them of the land.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The ceremony reaches a high point when God appears to Abraham to finalize (cut) the covenant - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93When the sun had gone down and it was dark, behold, a smoking fire pot and a flaming torch passed between these pieces\u8221\'94 (Genesis 15:17). Fire is often a symbol of the presence of God in Scripture (Exodus 3:1-6; 13:21; 19:16f; Acts 2:1-4). Here, God alone passes through the opposite rows of the sacrificed animals. God alone ratified His covenant with Abraham - this was a one-sided affair. By grace, God \u8216\'91obliges\u8217\'92 upon himself \u8220\'93to implement his promise of descendants, and especially of land, to Abram and to his descendants\u8221\'94 (Hamilton, p.438). God goes great length to assure Abraham that He will definitely fulfill His promises. Likewise for us, at the cross of Calvary God gave us the greatest evidence of His love for us. With confidence, we can sing:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93To God be the glory, great things He has done, so loved He the \tab world that He gave us His Son, who yielded his life our redemption to win, and opened the life-gate that all may go in\u8221\'94 (To God Be The Glory, Fanny Crosby, 1872).}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0}