{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 17}{\f0\fs24   The }{\f0\fs24\i1 smoking fire pot}{\f0\fs24  and the }{\f0\fs24\i1 flaming torch}{\f0\fs24  remind one of the smoke and fire that surrounded the summit of Mt. Sinai. Fire in the Bible is often a symbol of the presence of God. (We have already drawn attention to the close parallel in form between 15:7 and Exod. 20:2.)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 That only something representing deity passes between the rows of flesh shows that this covenant is unilateral. If it were bilateral, we would have expected something representing Abram as well to pass through, as we saw in the Hittite text discussed above on vv. 9\endash 11.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Of special significance here is the idea of Yahweh, represented by fiery symbols, passing between (}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u703\'3F\u257\'61\u7687\'3Far b\u275\'65n}{\f0\fs24 ) the rows of animal flesh. Here }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u703\'3F\u257\'61\u7687\'3Far}{\f0\fs24  is clearly a theophanic term. As such, the verb may be compared with two other important OT passages, Exod. 33\endash 34 and Josh. 3\endash 4. The first of these deals with the renewal of the covenant after the sin with the golden calf, and the second with the start and completion of Israel\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s crossing the Jordan. The three references have the following items in common:}
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (1)\tab a proclamation of Yahweh\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s name: Gen. 15:7; Exod. 34:5, 6; Josh. 3:9}
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (2)\tab something is \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93cut\u8221\'94: Gen. 15:18, a covenant; Exod. 34:4, tablets; Josh. 3:16, the waters of the Jordan}
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (3)\tab Yahweh\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s appearance expressed through }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u703\'3F\u257\'61\u7687\'3Far}{\f0\fs24 : Gen. 15:17; Exod. 33:23; Josh. 3:11}
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (4)\tab a justification for the theophany: Gen. 15:8, to confirm to Abram that he will possess the land; Exod. 33:16; to demonstrate that Moses and his people have found Yahweh\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s favor; Josh. 3:10, to convince the Israelites that there is among them a living God. (Note how each of these theophanies supplies knowledge for one who does not have that knowledge yet: \u8220\'93how am I to know?\u8221\'94 [Gen. 15:8]; \u8220\'93for how shall it be known?\u8221\'94 [Exod. 33:16]; \u8220\'93you shall know\u8221\'94 [Josh. 3:10].)}
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (5)\tab a list of nations Yahweh is to expel (in the form of a promise): Gen. 15:18\endash 21; Exod. 34:11; Josh. 3:10\endash 11}
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (6)\tab each is in the context of a covenant, or covenant renewal.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 We may deduce, then, that these three passages provide support for positing a covenant ritual ceremony which involved a theophany that was expressed by the verb }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u703\'3F\u257\'61\u7687\'3Far}{\f0\fs24 . It is not necessary to read into Gen. 15:17 any sanctions or self-curse to which Yahweh exposes himself. Rather, it is a confirmation of Yahweh\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise of land to Abram\u8217\'92s descendants.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 18\endash 21}{\f0\fs24   Animals are cut and now a covenant }{\f0\fs24\i1 (binding promise)}{\f0\fs24  is cut. V. 18 provides the only instance of the word \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93covenant\u8221\'94 in the chapter.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24  Etymologically the Hebrew word for covenant, }{\f0\fs24\i1 b}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 r\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u238\'EE\u7791\'3F}{\f0\fs24 , is associated with Akk. }{\f0\fs24\i1 bir\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u299\'69tu}{\f0\fs24 , \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93clasp, fetter.\u8221\'94 This etymology suggests that covenant, in the biblical sense, is not an agreement between two parties, but something that is imposed, an obligation. Nothing, however, in this chapter is imposed on Abram. He is free of any obligations. The only imposition or obligation that Yahweh lays upon anybody is upon himself, and that is the obligation to implement his promise of descendants, and especially of land, to Abram and to his descendants. For this reason Westermann has suggested, correctly, that }{\f0\fs24\i1 b}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 r\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u238\'EE\u7791\'3F}{\f0\fs24  not be translated here as \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93covenant\u8221\'94 but with something that captures the broader nuances of }{\f0\fs24\i1 b}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 r\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u238\'EE\u7791\'3F}{\f0\fs24 . He offered, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93On that day Yahweh gave Abraham the solemn assurance.\u8230\'85\u8221\'94 Three elements in Yahweh\u8217\'92s covenant with Abram\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 unconditionality, an oath taken by deity, and gift\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 find their clearest parallel in the later covenant with David (2 Sam. 7). The major difference between the two is that the first is a promise of land (for all descendants) and the second is a promise of dynasty (for one family).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 God obliges himself to give to Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s descendants the land of ten nations, all of which fall within the land of Canaan proper. The }{\f0\fs24\i1 river of Egypt}{\f0\fs24  (see Num. 34:5; Josh. 15:4, which use }{\f0\fs24\i1 na\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7717\'3Fal}{\f0\fs24  instead of }{\f0\fs24\i1 n\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u257\'61h\u257\'61r}{\f0\fs24 ) is not the Nile but the modern Wadi el-Arish, the dividing line between Palestine and Egypt. The geographical extremes of the promise obviously extend beyond Canaan, witnessed especially by the phrase }{\f0\fs24\i1 to the great river, the river Euphrates.}{\f0\fs24  In fact, only during the apogee of David\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s reign, many hundreds of years later, was this promise actualized. But even then the empire was maintained only for a generation. By Solomon\u8217\'92s time cracks appeared in the empire, and portions of the empire rebelled and reclaimed their own land for themselves.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1990). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge1?ref=BibleBHS.Ge15.17&off=0&ctx=an+of+aggression.32%0a~17++The+smoking+fire"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 1\endash 17\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 436\endash 438). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}