{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}{\f5\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f7\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs28\b1\i0 Exegetical Notes to Book 6, Act 2, Scene 1}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Setting: Barren Sarah Has a Maidservant, Hagar (16:1)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 1. Sarai \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85 had borne him no children.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  The narrator foreshadowed the problems of Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s barrenness in his introduction to the account in 11:30. The problem has now reached a crisis. The complication of seed resembles the complication of land in 12:10. This dilemma will not be resolved until 21:2, near the end of the act.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Abram\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s wife.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This designation of Sarah emphasizes her rightful standing. The promised son should come from her.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Egyptian.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Hagar was possibly among the maidservants Abraham acquired under Pharaoh\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s patronage (12:16).}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 maidservant.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  A maidservant is a personal servant owned by a rich woman, not a slave girl answerable to the master. Hagar\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s relationship to Sarah resembles Eliezer\u8217\'92s to Abraham (see 15:2); she is answerable to Sarah. The angel of the Lord will reassert this identification (16:8).}
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Incident 1: Sarah and Hagar (16:2\endash 6)}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qc\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b1\i1 Unbelief: Sarah\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8217\'92s Scheme and Abraham\u8217\'92s Consent (16:2)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 2. The Lord has kept me \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85 perhaps I.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Sarah was about sixty-five years old when Abraham left his father and homeland. Still childless a decade later, and perhaps already in menopause, Sarah draws the conclusion that the offspring the Lord has promised Abraham will not come from her body. She recognizes the Lord as Creator of life; however, she does not interpret her infertility in terms of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise. Her complaint condemns her for seizing the initiative from his hands. Without a word from God to authorize her scheme, she is guilty of synergism. Her plan to deal with the problem compares with Abraham\u8217\'92s in 12:11\endash 13 (cf. also Eve\u8217\'92s synergism 4:1).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Go, sleep.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  The text literally reads \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93go into,\u8221\'94 a Hebraism for coitus.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 I can build a family.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Literally \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I can be built,\u8221\'94 this phrase is a Hebraism for \u8220\'93obtain a son\u8221\'94 (see 30:3).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 through her.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  The practice of surrogate motherhood for an infertile wife through her maidservant seemed to be an acceptable social practice, as can be judged from Gen. 30:3\endash 12, the Code of Hammurabi (ca. 1700 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps b.c.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ), a Nuzi text (ca. 1500 }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps b.c.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ), an Old Assyrian marriage contract (nineteenth century }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps b.c.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ), and a Neo-Assyrian text. According to the Old Assyrian marriage contract, after the chief wife procured an infant for her husband, she could sell the surrogate mother whenever she pleased. According to the Code of Hammurabi, however, she could not sell her (see \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93whatever you think\u8221\'94 below).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 agreed to what Sarai said.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  The Hebrew here occurs only in Gen. 3:17. Like Adam, Abraham agrees to his wife\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faithless suggestion. Abraham\u8217\'92s careless passivity sharply contrasts with his valiant actions on behalf of Lot (Gen. 14; 19).}
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b1\i1 Sarah and Hagar: Conflict in the Home (16:3\endash 4)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 3. ten years.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  See 12:4; 16:16.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Sarai \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85 took}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  [}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 lq\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u7717\'3F}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ] }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85 gave}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  [}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 ntn}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ] }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85 to her husband.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This is the same progression of verbs at the Fall in 3:6. Hagar is treated as property with no personal rights.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 his wife.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  The repetition of this designation (16:1) punctuates the foolishness of Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s scheme.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 4. despise}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  [}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 qll}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ]. The Hebrew here is translated \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93curses\u8221\'94 in 12:3. Already the plan has deconstructed. This attitude is also a crucial mistake for Hagar. She arrogantly turns on the one who has requested her help. Laws of Ur-Nammu 22\endash 23 and the Law of Hammurabi protected the first wife against this natural response. Because Hagar treats Sarah with disdain, she is alienated from the family of blessing, as is Lot (See Prov. 30:21\endash 23).}
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b1\i1 Sarah and Abraham: Sarah Complains to Abraham and Drives Out Hagar (16:5\endash 6)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 5. You are responsible.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Like Eve, Sarah now shifts the blame, and like Adam, Abraham shrugs off responsibility. Abraham alone has the judicial authority to effect a change and up to now has not acted to protect their marriage.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 wrong}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  [}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u7717\'3F\u257\'61m\u257\'61s}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ]. The Hebrew suggests a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93flagrant violation of law\u8221\'94 (see 6:11).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 I am suffering.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Although the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps niv}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  is a paraphrase of the Hebrew expression meaning \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the wrong against me,\u8221\'94 it captures the right sense. Sarah takes her complaint to Abraham as to a judge to right the injustice. Agur\u8217\'92s proverb affirms her implied meaning: \u8220\'93Under three things the earth trembles, under four it cannot bear up: \u8230\'85 a maidservant [}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u353\'9Aip\u817\'5F\u7717\'3F\u226\'E2}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ] who displaces her mistress [}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 g}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1\super e}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u7687\'3Firt\u257\'61h}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ]\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Prov. 30:21\endash 23).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 despises.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  In this incident the narrator\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sympathy lies with Sarah; in the next, with Hagar. This is evident because in 16:4 he confirms Sarah\u8217\'92s evaluation of the situation by using the same vocabulary as Sarah. Sternberg says, \u8220\'93The reader infers from the equivalence in language an equivalence in vision where the character\u8217\'92s involvement might otherwise cast doubt on her objectivity.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 may the }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\scaps Lord}{\f2\fs24\b1\i0  judge between you and me.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Sarah appeals to a still higher court (see 31:53; Ex. 5:21; 1 Sam. 24:12, 15) and confesses her faith in God. If Abraham will not offer the legal protection to which she is entitled, Sarah hopes confidently that the Lord will.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 6. whatever you think.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  According to the Code of Hammurabi, the despised mistress in this situation could not sell her maidservant, but she could mark her with the slave mark and count her among the slaves. The Law of Ur-Nammu prescribed that an insolent concubine have \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93her mouth scoured with one quart of salt.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 mistreated}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  [}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u703\'3F\u257\'61n\u226\'E2}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ]. This is the same Hebrew verb as in 15:13 for the Egyptian mistreatment of the Israelites (cf. Ex. 1:12). Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s reaction is too severe. Victimized by barrenness and Hagar, Sarah now becomes the victimizer. Neither Sarah nor Hagar acquit themselves well here: the mistress is harsh and overbearing; the maidservant is unrepentant and insubordinate.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 fled.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Like Israel, Hagar flees her mistreatment (Ex. 14:5). The narrator\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sympathies now are on the side of the oppressed maidservant. Nevertheless, Hagar\u8217\'92s deliverance does not lie in returning to Egypt, her native land, but in submitting to the mother of Israel and not despising her.}
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Incident 2: Hagar\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s Encounter with the Angel of the Lord (16:7\endash 14)}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qc\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b1\i1 Setting: Angel Finds Hagar in the Wilderness (16:7)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 7. angel of the }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\scaps Lord}{\f2\fs24\b1\i0 .}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Like all angels, he is a heavenly being sent from the heavenly court to earth as God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s personal agent. In the ancient Near East the royal messenger was treated as a surrogate of the king (Judg. 11:13; 2 Sam. 3:12\endash 13; 1 Kings 20:2\endash 4). So also the Lord\u8217\'92s messenger is treated as God and yet as distinct from God, as God\u8217\'92s angel (cf. Gen. 21:17; 22:11; 31:11; Ex. 3:2; 14:19; 23:20; 32:34). For instance, Manoah and his wife, like Hagar, think the man they have seen is God (13:21\endash 22; cf. 6:22\endash 23; cf. Ex. 33:20). This angel\u8217\'92s name is beyond knowing (Judg. 13:18), and he is associated with worship (13:15). Some equate him with the second person of the Trinity, yet the New Testament never makes this identification. If we may equate him with the }{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 angelos kyriou}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  of the New Testament, he announces the birth of John the Baptist (Luke 1:11) and of Jesus (Matt. 1:20, 24; Luke 2:9) and identifies himself as Gabriel (Luke 1:19).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 found Hagar.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Divine intervention is purposeful and deliberate, not a fortuitous accident (cf. Gen. 12:17).}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 spring.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This sign of life in the desert is a symbol of hope, despite suffering.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Shur.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  The name means \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93wall,\u8221\'94 probably a reference to the Egyptian border forts along the line of the Isthmus of Suez in order to protect Egypt from the incursion of Asiatics (see 25:18; 1 Sam. 15:7). Hagar was fleeing toward her home in Egypt.}
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b1\i1 Angel\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8217\'92s Speech and Hagar\u8217\'92s Response (16:8\endash 14)}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f5\fs24\b0\i0 Initial Exchange (16:8\endash 9)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 8. Hagar.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This is the only known instance in ancient Near Eastern literature where the deity addresses a woman by name. The greeting makes a trustful response possible.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 servant of Sarai.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  The same Hebrew word is translated \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93maidservant\u8221\'94 in 16:2. This designation of Hagar by the angel confirms Hagar\u8217\'92s appointed place.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 where.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This rhetorical question elicits her participation (see 3:9).}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 my mistress.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Hagar offers an honest and humble response.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 9. Go back.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  The child she carries belongs to Abraham.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 submit.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This is the same root as \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93afflict\u8221\'94 (}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u703\'3F\u257\'61n\u226\'E2}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ). The woman who wanted esteem and freedom must submit herself. A servant advances not by discarding social boundaries but by honoring them (Prov. 17:2; 27:18).}
\par\pard\plain \sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f5\fs24\b0\i0 Angel\loch\af5\hich\af5\dbch\af5\uc1\u8217\'92s Announcement (16:10\endash 12)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 10. The angel added.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This is the first of several birth announcements by this heavenly messenger (cf. 17:19; Judg. 13:3, 5, 7; Luke 1:11\endash 20, 26\endash 38). The announcements predict the birth and destiny of those who play a significant role in salvation history.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 increase your descendants.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s command to Hagar to submit is graciously accompanied by a promise. The promise is reaffirmed in Gen. 17:20 and fulfilled in 25:13\endash 16. Abraham will father many descendants (13:16), both elect and nonelect. The nonelect will also be protected by God and made into a great nation (17:20).}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 11. heard of your misery}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  [}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u703\'3Fonye\u7733\'3F}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ]. The Hebrew word translated \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93misery\u8221\'94 is a nominal form of the same root as \u8220\'93mistreated\u8221\'94 (16:6) and \u8220\'93submit\u8221\'94 (16:9). God\u8217\'92s commitment to Abraham does not void his commitments to the nonelect who also have a future within God\u8217\'92s plans. The Lord looks after the oppressed (29:32; Ex. 3:7; 4:31; Deut. 26:7; 1 Sam. 1:11), redeems human error, and protects the wronged.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Ishmael.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  The name, which means \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93God hears,\u8221\'94 is explained more fully by \u8220\'93The }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  has heard of your misery.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Ishmael.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  The name, which means \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93God hears,\u8221\'94 is explained more fully by \u8220\'93The }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  has heard of your misery.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f6\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge16.11&off=402&ctx=otects+the+wronged.%0a~Ishmael.+The+name%2c+w"}{\fldrslt\f7\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f6\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 255). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f6\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 12. wild donkey.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  The fearless and fleet-footed Syrian onager is a metaphor for an individualistic lifestyle untrammeled by social convention (Job 24:5\endash 8; 39:5\endash 8; Jer. 2:24; Hos. 8:9). Ishmael is not a child in whose seed the nations will be blessed; his blessing will be away from the land of promise, living by his own resources.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 hostility.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  His passion for freedom will lead him into conflict with everyone. The fierce aggression of the Ishmaelites is contrasted with the nomadic lifestyle of the patriarchs.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 all his brothers.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  By the end of the Abrahamic narrative, Ishmael and Isaac live in separation (Gen. 25:18).}
\par\pard\plain \sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f5\fs24\b0\i0 Hagar\loch\af5\hich\af5\dbch\af5\uc1\u8217\'92s Worship and Etiology (16:13\endash 14)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 13. She gave this name to the }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\scaps Lord}{\f2\fs24\b1\i0 .}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This is the only instance in the Bible where a human being is represented as conferring a name on God. Hagar gives God a name that expresses his special significance to her. She responds to the person, not to the promise. She no longer gloats that she is pregnant but marvels at the Lord\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s care for her.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 You are the God who sees me.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This sentence name is \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93You are El-Roi\u8221\'94 (lit., \u8220\'93God of my seeing\u8221\'94). The name is a pun, meaning either \u8220\'93the God who sees me\u8221\'94 (so }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps niv}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ), which fits the context, and/or \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the God I see,\u8221\'94 which fits her explanation. The former speaks of his care for her; the latter, of her experiences of God\u8217\'92s manifestation.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 I have now seen the One who sees me.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  The Hebrew is difficult and literally reads, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Have I also/even here looked at the back of/after}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super 123}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  my seeing one?\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 Her question, which demands an emphatic affirmative, probably entails both that she has looked at God and he has seen her.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 14. well}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  [}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 be\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u702\'3F\u275\'65r}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ]. This is a watering place of underground water, but in 16:7 it is called \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93a spring\u8221\'94 (}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u703\'3Fayin}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ). Perhaps a well had been dug close to the spring for convenience.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Lahai Roi.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  The Hebrew means \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93belonging to the living one, my seeing one,\u8221\'94 thus referring to the same pun (cf. Gen. 24:62; 25:11).}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 still there.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Today the site is uncertain.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Kadesh.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  See note on 14:7.}
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 In Abraham\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s Tents (16:15\endash 16)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 15. So Hagar bore Abram a son.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Contrast this with 16:1, which notes that Sarah has borne Abraham no children. The cost of Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s human engineering is to watch Hagar give birth to and raise a child for Abraham. The tension for the promised son is only heightened.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Ishmael.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  The genealogy is given in 25:12\endash 18.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f6\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge16.1-16&off=16308"}{\fldrslt\f7\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f6\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 251\endash 256). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}