{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Introduction}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 : this passage covers the birth of the Arabs, the very beginning of the Arabs as a people, their roots and origin. But more importantly, the passage gives us a great study on }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 impatience}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . It teaches us a great deal about the emotion of restlessness or impatience that grips so many of us so often. What is impatience? It is the emotion \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab that gets tired of waiting}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab that gets fed up with something that delays us}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab that arouses us to act or react before we should}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Waiting}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  and }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 delay}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  are the key words: we just get tired of waiting, of being delayed, and want to move on and act or react. And too often we do, and we cause all kinds of problems for ourselves and for others, often painful and catastrophic problems.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This was what happened to Abram and Sara. They became impatient in waiting for the promised seed, the son promised by God. Their impatience was so gripping that they just felt they could wait no longer. If they did, it would be too late to bear a son. They began to rationalize, to question and say what we often say about the promises of God:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Could God be waiting for us to do something before He acts?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Doesn\u8217\'92t God help those who help themselves?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab If we do this, then won\u8217\'92t God do that?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Doesn\u8217\'92t God expect us to do our part, then He does His?}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This kind of reasoning often leads us to act before we should, and the consequences are often terrible and painful. Impatience can cause us to fail in our behavior, plans, and programs, all because we just do not wait upon God, upon His timing, His will, His way. As stated, this was what happened to Abram and Sara. And this is the message of this interesting and instructive passage: }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Abram Gave Birth to Ishmael and the Arabs: Impatient Faith\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 the Terrible Wrong of Impatience}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , 16:1\endash 16.}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1.\tab The causes of impatience (vv. 1\endash 2).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2.\tab The terrible consequences of impatience (vv. 3\endash 6).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 3.\tab The solution or answer to impatience (vv. 7\endash 16).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge16.1-16&off=3559&ctx=%2c+16:1%E2%80%9316%0a(16:1%E2%80%9316)+~Introduction:+this+p"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 71\endash 72). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Impatience}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 : first, the causes of impatience. Sara illustrates several of the major factors that cause us to be so impatient.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 a. An unfulfilled desire. Sara wanted a child desperately. In that day, a woman\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s ability to bear children, especially a son, was almost a necessity to remain married. In the eyes of people, children were a sign of God\u8217\'92s blessing, whereas being childless was a sign of dishonor and reproach (Ge. 21:6; 24:60; Ex. 23:26; see Ge. 30:1, 23; 33:5; Ps. 127:3; 128:3). Sara was now seventy-five years old, and she had never borne a child. She felt the shame and remorse, the dishonor that women of that day felt from being childless. Throughout her life, she had been eager to bear a son for Abram, but her desire had never been fulfilled. Sara was childless, and now in her old age she was desperate and becoming more and more impatient. In fact, her patience was running out, and impatience was gaining control of her heart. We will see this in just a moment.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . The point is this: an unfulfilled desire can cause impatience; it can cause us to act before we should, to ignore God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s will and God\u8217\'92s timing. Impatience can arouse us to move long before we should \u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab to devise plans and programs}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab to plot and scheme}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab to act and react}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Impatience can cause us to try to fill the desire ourselves instead of waiting upon God. This is exactly what happened to Sara, and it is what often happens to us.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 b. A mistaken thought. Why was Sara barren, unable to bear children? Was it because God had closed her womb? Closed it permanently, forever? Sara thought so. She began to question God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise, to question if the promise made to Abram included her. She felt that she had been left out of the promise given by God, as though the promise did not cover her situation, as though it had no effect upon her life.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Note what Sara did: she told Abram that it was the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  who had kept her from bearing a child (v. 2).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge16.1-2&off=11&ctx=21%E2%80%9331.)%0a%0a1+(16:1%E2%80%932)+~Impatience:+first%2c+t"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 72). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . A mistaken thought often leads to impatience and wrong action. We face some problem or crisis, and wonder why God has not helped us or given us the answer. We may even question if the promises of God apply to us, if the promises are even true for us today. Such thoughts are mistaken thoughts: God promises to help us in every crisis and problem of life, even to the most minute problem. God even knows when a single hair falls to the ground, and this is supposedly the smallest care that man has. But note: no problem is too small for God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s concern. God is concerned about us and will help us through all the trials and temptations of life. We must not, therefore, question God\u8217\'92s promises. We must not become impatient and act on our own, running ahead of God. God knows when to act, exactly when to help us. He knows when to fulfill His promises in our lives. We must, therefore, trust God and wait upon His help, His guidance, and His direction.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge16.1-2&off=3253&ctx=ugh+the+centuries.)%0a~Thought+1.+A+mistake"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 72\endash 73). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Now note several facts about this idea of Sara\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Sara\u8217\'92s motive was commendable. She desperately wanted Abram to bear the promised seed. But her method was wrong: it was a worldly, carnal method devised and practiced by unbelievers.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Sara was making a painful sacrifice for her husband: sharing her husband\u8217\'92s love and body with another woman in order to give him a son. But her sacrifice was stirred by worldly, carnal practices. Consequently, her sacrifice was for nothing. In fact, her sacrifice did nothing but cause more pain and suffering.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Sara\u8217\'92s idea was to follow a practice of the world, not the Word of God, not the promise of God. Her idea was to follow a worldly, carnal plan, a plan that was practiced by those who lived for the world and the flesh, not for God. Thus her suggestion was a worldly, carnal suggestion.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Note that Abram listened to Sara and did what she suggested (v. 2}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super c}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ). She convinced him that this could be the very way God intended him to bear }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 the promised seed}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . A worldly, carnal suggestion can lead us to be impatient:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab to go ahead and act before we should.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab to adopt some worldly, carnal method devised by unbelievers instead of waiting upon God.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab to ignore God\u8217\'92s lead and follow customs and practices of the world.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge16.1-2&off=6611&ctx=+a+son+through+her.%0a~Now+note+several+fac"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 73). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . The point is this: impatience results in a terrible consequence: a collapsed faith and patience. We cease to trust God, to wait patiently, and what happens?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Impatience leads us to take matters into our own hands and do our own thing.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab We give in to the lust of the eyes, the lust of the flesh, and the pride of life.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab We end up saying and doing things that are completely contrary to God\u8217\'92s will and Word.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge16.3-6&off=5080&ctx=nd+Hagar+conceived.%0a~Thought+1.+The+point"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 74). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Impatience leads to sinful behavior (vv. 4\endash 6). This is always true. Note the sinful behavior pointed out by Scripture, the sinful behavior that resulted from the impatience of Sara and Abram.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1)\tab There were the sins of immorality, adultery, and polygamy: Abram took Hagar as his second wife and she conceived his child (v. 4).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2)\tab There were the sins of malice, spite, insolence, reproach, scorn, and a haughty spirit: Hagar despised Sara (v. 4). She had been misused for Sara\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s own end, and Hagar despised her for it. But there was probably something else as well: when Hagar discovered that she was pregnant, she probably looked upon Sara with scorn and reproach because Sara was childless. Hagar must have walked around with a haughty and insulting spirit toward Sara.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 3)\tab There were the sins of jealousy and of blaming others: Sara was now jealous of Hagar and Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s relationship, and note: she blamed Abram for the affair (v. 5). Apparently, she felt that Abram was favoring Hagar for he had not stepped in to correct Hagar\u8217\'92s scorn of her. Abram had obviously chosen to favor Hagar because she was bearing the son for whom he had yearned so long. Thus Sara reacted by appealing to God for help: she called for God to help her, to judge between her and Abram (v. 5).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 4)\tab There was the sin of disturbed relationships, the relationships between Sara and Hagar and between Sara and Abram. Both have already been discussed (vv. 4\endash 5). Now, the relationship between Abram and Hagar was to be disturbed (v. 6). He gave in to his wife\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s anger, allowing her to mistreat Hagar.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . These were the sins of Sara and Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s impatience. Our impatience may not lead into these particular sins, but impatience will always result in sinful behavior, sins such as \u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab disrespectful behavior}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab mistreating people}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab devising worldly plans and programs}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab turning to the world}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab ignoring and running ahead of God}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab selfishness}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab stealing}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab lying}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab deception}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab pride}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab anger}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab bitterness\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge16.3-6&off=5942&ctx=+(He.+10:35%E2%80%9336).%0ac.+~Impatience+leads+to+"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 74\endash 75). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 When we act impatiently, we usually mistreat some other person, perhaps several people. This was true with Sara and Abram: their impatience had mistreated Hagar and hurt her deeply, so deeply that she had fled from them and headed home to Egypt. There was danger in this, for she \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab was turning away from the household of believers and fleeing to a household of unbelievers}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab was fleeing from the hope of the promised land back into the world}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab was fleeing from God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s will for her life and taking her life into her own hands}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Note that God knew exactly where Hagar (the mistreated) was (vv. 7\endash 9}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ). He knew that she had been mistreated and had fled from Sara. God knew that she was hurting, that her heart was broken and full of pain. Why then would God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s messenger (\u8220\'93angel\u8221\'94 means }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 messenger}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ) ask Hagar where she had come from and where she was going? To arouse }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 conviction}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  within her heart. She needed to sense her wrong in the affair before she would do God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s will: return to Abram and Sara and to the household of faith.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 God always knows where we are when we have been mistreated. He knows when we are hurt and full of pain. When we are, we need to hear God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s Word:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab search our own hearts to see what wrong we have done}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab repent of that wrong}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab get up and do exactly what God says to do\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge16.7-16&off=169&ctx=with+God+(vv.+7%E2%80%939).+~When+we+act+impatien"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 75). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The point is this: God heard the cry of Hagar out in the desert and met her need. She had been mistreated and abused by Sara and Abram. But now God comforted and assured her that both she and her child would survive the ravages of the desert if she would only obey Him. He comforted and assured her by giving her the above promises. All Hagar had to do was to receive the promises of God and obey Him. She had to follow His instructions to the fullest.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Note: the founder of the great religion Islam, Mohammed, is from the land of Ishmael\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge16.7-16&off=2906&ctx=t+with+each+other.1%0a~The+point+is+this:+G"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 76). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 c. The third answer to impatience is worshipping and praising God (v. 13). Immediately upon receiving the promises of God, Hagar began to worship and praise God. Note: she called God }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 El Roi}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the God who sees me.\u8221\'94 God had seen her distress, seen her in her hour of need. God had seen her broken heart and pain. Thus, she worshipped Him as }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 El Roi}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , the God who had seen her and met her need.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge16.7-16&off=3445&ctx=he+land+of+Ishmael.%0a~c.+The+third+answer+"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 76). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 d. The fourth answer to impatience is obeying God (v. 15). Note that all three of the guilty parties now repented of their impatience and obeyed God.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1)\tab Hagar (the mistreated) returned to the household of faith, to the home of Abram and Sara. Hagar fulfilled her purpose \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab to live as a believer in the household of faith}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab to live in the hope of the promised land while living within the world}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab to bear the child, Ishmael, which God had promised}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2)\tab Abram and Sara both obeyed God. They received Hagar back when she returned, just as God had instructed. And they agreed to name the child Ishmael, just as God had instructed.}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Although it is not recorded, at some point Abram and Sara repented of their sin of impatience and of the terrible wrong they had done to Hagar. We know this because they accepted Hagar back and obeyed God in naming Hagar\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s son as God had instructed.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . The lesson for us is this: If we have been impatient and run ahead of God\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 if we have devised human plans and substituted worldly methods for God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s will, acting, reacting, mistreating, and hurting others\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 we must do two things:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (1)\tab We must go before God to confront Him and repent of the wrong we have done.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge16.7-16&off=3835&ctx=r+and+met+her+need.%0a~d.+The+fourth+answer"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 76). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}