{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0   The preceding chapter of Genesis had several references to God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise to Abram that he would have both a descendant (v. 4) and descendants (vv. 5, 13, 18). The problem with that possibility ever becoming reality is Sarai\u8217\'92s inability to conceive (see 11:30). In some ways the issue is the same as that in 12:10ff. What good are the promises of God if Sarai is dead (12:10ff.), or if her womb is dead? How is the problem of nonfunctioning reproductive organs to be overcome? For at least ten years (16:3) Abram and Sarai have been childless. The brief mention of the presence of an Egyptian maidservant, Hagar (for which see 12:16), opens a window to the following narrative.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1990). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge1?ref=BibleBHS.Ge16.1&off=0&ctx=+she+fled+from+her.%0a~1++The+preceding+cha"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 1\endash 17\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 443). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2 Sarai\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s words reflect an OT perspective that Yahweh is the ultimate source behind all of life\u8217\'92s experiences, from the exhilarating to the annoying and depressing. And in most cases moral analysis is not required.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 To mitigate the problem Sarai suggests that her husband cohabit with Hagar, a suggestion which Abram took to heart. Note, however, that Sarai never addresses or talks of Hagar by name, but only by label or role, }{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 my maidservant}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (see also v. 5; even Abram avoids her name, v. 6). Other ancient texts have provided parallels to what the modern reader of Scripture might consider blatant immorality:}
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1.\tab Hammurapi\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s Code, \u167\'A7 146: \u8220\'93When a seignior [i.e., a free man] married a hierodule [priestess] and she gave a female slave to her husband and she has then borne children, if later that female slave has claimed equality with her mistress because she bore children, her mistress may not sell her; she may mark her with the slave-mark and count her among the slaves.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2.\tab A Nuzi text: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93If Gilimninu (the bride) will not bear children, Gilimninu shall take a woman of N/Lullu land (whence the choicest slaves were obtained) as a wife for Shennima (the bridegroom).\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 3.\tab An Old Assyrian marriage contract: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Laqipum took (in marriage) \u7722\'3Fatala, the daughter of Eni\u353\'9Ar\u251\'FB. In the country Laqipum shall not take (in marriage) another (woman), (but) in the city (of Ashshur) he may take (in marriage) a priestess. If within two years she has not procured offspring for him, only she may buy a maid-servant and even later on, after she procures somehow an infant for him, she may sell her wherever she pleases.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\sa180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 4.\tab A Neo-Assyrian text: (41) \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93If \u7778\'3Fubetu does not conceive (and) (42) does not give birth, she may take a maidservant (and) (43) as a substitute in her position she may place (her). (44) She [\u7778\'3Fubetu] will (thereby) bring sons into being (and) the sons will be her [}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u7778\'3Fubetu\u8217\'92s}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ] sons. (45) If she loves (the maidservant) she may keep (her). (46) If she hates her she may sell her.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The first three of these texts date to the 2nd millennium }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps b.c., }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 and the last from the 1st millennium }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps b.c. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 All four demonstrate a marriage practice spread over two millennia in which an infertile wife procures a surrogate wife, a maidservant.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1990). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge1?ref=BibleBHS.Ge16.2&off=522&ctx=+Sam.+1:5).+Rather%2c+~Sarai%E2%80%99s+words+reflec"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 1\endash 17\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 444\endash 445). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 3}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0   Just as Abram gave Sarai to Pharaoh, now Sarai gives Hagar to Abram. Abram the donor becomes Abram the receiver, and Sarai the pawn becomes Sarai the initiator. Hagar has no choice in the matter. She is \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93taken,\u8221\'94 then \u8220\'93given,\u8221\'94 that is, she is essentially an instrument. This all transpires after the couple have lived in Canaan for a decade.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The account provides another illustration of how a child of God, with his or her back to the wall, feels pressed to take the initiative in order to bring God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promises to pass. Sarai must through some means, any means, have progeny. This story also reflects the replacing of marriage\u8217\'92s primary purpose of companionship (Gen. 2:18) by that of reproduction, with all the resulting negative effects.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1990). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge1?ref=BibleBHS.Ge16.3&off=0&ctx=rchal+narratives.18%0a~3++Just+as+Abram+gav"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 1\endash 17\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 446). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 4\endash 5}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0   Hagar, ironically, has no problem at all in becoming pregnant. She is taken or brought to Abram. He has intercourse with her, with no emotional reactions described beforehand or after. But she turns against the very one who solicited her help and becomes pompous toward her (at least Sarai perceives it that way). In actuality Hagar is taking pride in her pregnancy. I would not doubt that Hagar\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s judgment about Sarai in v. 4b is the same as is found in the law stated above from the Code of Hammurapi, \u8220\'93if later that female slave has claimed equality with her mistress.\u8221\'94 This is quite different, however, from saying something like, \u8220\'93if later that female slave shows contempt toward her mistress,\u8221\'94 or some other insulting expression. Sarai is now a non-child-producing }{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u702\'3Fi\u353\'9A\u353\'9A\u225\'E1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , and Hagar is a child-producing }{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u702\'3Fi\u353\'9A\u353\'9A\u225\'E1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . And that is what annoys Sarai and not any barbs that Hagar is throwing at her. Sarai is understandably irked at the conflict this new situation has introduced into her household. Her original intention in making the proposition to Abram was that Hagar would conceive. She did not anticipate the tension that would ensue\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1990). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge1?ref=BibleBHS.Ge16.4-5&off=0&ctx=g+negative+effects.%0a~4%E2%80%935++Hagar%2c+ironical"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 1\endash 17\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 446\endash 447). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 6 If Hagar shows some pride, and if Sarai shows a false blame, Abram demonstrates a false neutrality. He too, like Sarai, does not refer to Hagar by name but only by label. For Abram, Hagar is either }{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 your}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 maidservant}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  or }{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 her.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  If v. 5 casts Abram in the role of defendant, v. 6a casts Abram in the role of judge. And if Abram will not offer her legal protection, then Yahweh will }{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 (may Yahweh decide between you and me).}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s judgment on the matter is, at best, lame and passive.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Sarai\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s abuse of Hagar (}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u703\'3F\u257\'61n\u225\'E1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  III), which forces Hagar to flee (}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 b\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u257\'61ra\u7717\'3F}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ), finds a parallel in the exodus of Israel from Egypt. There, the Egyptians\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 oppression of the Hebrews (}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u703\'3F\u257\'61n\u225\'E1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , Gen. 15:13; Exod. 1:11, 12) moved the latter, by God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s power, to flee (}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 b\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u257\'61ra\u7717\'3F}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , Exod. 14:5). But in Gen. 16 the roles of oppressor and oppressed are just the opposite from Exodus. Here it is a matriarch of Israel oppressing an Egyptian.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The whole event and its unusual character are reflected in the OT\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s wisdom literature: \u8220\'93Under three things the earth trembles, under four it cannot bear up: \u8230\'85 and a maid [}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u353\'9Aip\u772\'AF\u7717\'3F\u225\'E1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ] when she succeeds her mistress [}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 g}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1\super e}{\f4\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u7687\'3Firt\u257\'61h}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ]\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Prov. 30:21\endash 23). These are the two terms used in Gen. 16 to describe the relationship of Sarai and Hagar to each other.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1990). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge1?ref=BibleBHS.Ge16.6&off=3&ctx=ompanies+that.22%0a6++~If+Hagar+shows+some+"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 1\endash 17\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 447\endash 448). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 12}{\f0\fs24   The announcement by the angel proceeds to delineate the destiny of Hagar\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s child. Ishmael is to be }{\f0\fs24\i1 a wild ass of the steppe land.}{\f0\fs24  This designation is derogatory and derisive. Here we have the metaphorical use of animals, a frequent device in the OT. The }{\f0\fs24\i1 wild ass}{\f0\fs24  is the onager, whose habitat is in waste places (Job 39:5\endash 8; Isa. 32:14; Jer. 14:6; Hos. 8:9), suggesting a desert, nomadic life-style for Ishmael and his descendants. Jer. 2:24 compares Israel\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s zealous pursuit after baals to a wild ass in heat. Once she has picked up the scent of the male\u8217\'92s urine, she becomes frantic for the male; nothing stops her in her lustful pursuit of the male.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Hagar is also told that her child will be involved with belligerent forces and neighbors. This is the thrust of the idiom }{\f0\fs24\i1 his hand against every man and every man\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8217\'92s hand against him.}{\f0\fs24  Ishmael will both give and receive some crushing blows. For this reason the first part of the last line of the announcement\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 }{\f0\fs24\i1 w}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u703\'3Fal-p}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 n\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u234\'EA}{\f0\fs24 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 should not be translated \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93before,\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93east of,\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93in the vicinity of,\u8221\'94 but as \u8220\'93in defiance of, against\u8221\'94 (for parallels see Exod. 20:3 [perhaps!]; Deut. 21:16; Isa. 65:3).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Because Hagar\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s words in v. 13 address the fact that she has seen God, rather than the announcement she has just heard, some have moved to isolate vv. 11\endash 12 from the original story and see the announcement as a secondary, literary tradition. However, the presence of this part of the narrative is necessary to do justice to v. 9. The explicit revelation to Hagar that she is bearing a child with a manifest destiny means that even her return to Sarai (v. 9) cannot be for nought. Hagar need not fear that Sarai will abuse her to the extent that she might lose the child she is carrying.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1990). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge1?ref=BibleBHS.Ge16.12&off=0&ctx=him+of+Yahweh.%E2%80%99%C2%A0%E2%80%9D16%0a~12++The+announcement"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 1\endash 17\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 454\endash 455). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}