{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 BARREN, BARRENNESS}{\f0\fs24  Term used to describe a woman who is unable to give birth to children: Sarai (Gen. 11:30), Rebekah (Gen. 25:21), Rachel (Gen. 29:31), Manoah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s wife (Judg. 13:2), Hannah (1 Sam. 1:5), and Elizabeth (Luke 1:7, 36). Also described as \u8220\'93solitary\u8221\'94 (Job 3:7), \u8220\'93desolate\u8221\'94 (2 Sam. 13:20; Isa. 49:21; 54:1), or \u8220\'93dead, deadness\u8221\'94 (Rom. 4:19). }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Barrenness was considered a curse from God (Gen. 16:2; 20:18; 1 Sam. 1:5), which explains Elizabeth\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s statement that God had taken away her \u8220\'93disgrace among the people\u8221\'94\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 that she was a sinner and cursed by God as evidenced by her barrenness (Luke 1:25). }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The barrenness of Sarai, Rebekah, and Rachel (the mothers of the Israelite nation) is significant in that their ability finally to bear children is a sign of the grace and favor of God toward His elect people.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Brand, C., Draper, C., England, A., Bond, S., Clendenen, E. R., & Butler, T. C. (Eds.). (2003). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/hlmnillbbldict?ref=biblio.at%3dBarren%2c%2520Barrenness%7ced%3dBrand%2c%2520Chad%3bDraper%2c%2520Charles%3bEngland%2c%2520Archie%3bBond%2c%2520Steve%3bClendenen%2c%2520E.%2520Ray%3bButler%2c%2520Trent%2520C."}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Barren, Barrenness\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 . In \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Holman Illustrated Bible Dictionary\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 173). Nashville, TN: Holman Bible Publishers.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs28\b1 BARRENNESS}{\f0\fs24 . To be a wife without bearing children has always been regarded in the East, not only as a matter of regret, but as a reproach which could lead to divorce. This is the cause of Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s despairing laughter (Gn. 18:12), Hannah\u8217\'92s silent prayer (1 Sa. 1:10ff.), Rachel\u8217\'92s passionate alternative of children or death (Gn. 30:1) and Elizabeth\u8217\'92s cry that God had taken away her reproach (Lk. 1:25). The awfulness of the coming judgment on Jerusalem is emphasized by the incredible statement, \u8216\'91Blessed are the barren \u8230\'85\u8217\'92 (Lk. 23:29). It was believed that the gift of children or the withholding of them indicated God\u8217\'92s blessing or curse (Ex. 23:26; Dt. 7:14), as also did the barrenness or fruitfulness of the land (Ps. 107:33\endash 34).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Meiklejohn, J. W. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nbd?ref=biblio.at%3dBarrenness%7cau%3dMeiklejohn%2c%2520J.%2520W.%7ced%3dWood%2c%2520D.%2520R.%2520W.%3bMarshall%2c%2520I.%2520H.%3bMillard%2c%2520A.%2520R.%3bPacker%2c%2520J.%2520I.%3bWiseman%2c%2520D.%2520J."}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Barrenness\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 . In D. R. W. Wood, I. H. Marshall, A. R. Millard, J. I. Packer, & D. J. Wiseman (Eds.), \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 New Bible dictionary\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (3rd ed., p. 123). Leicester, England; Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 In Israel and among oriental peoples generally barrenness was a woman\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s and a family\u8217\'92s greatest misfortune. The highest sanctions of religion and patriotism blessed the fruitful woman, because children were necessary for the perpetuation of the tribe and its religion. It is significant that the mothers of the Heb race, Sarah, Rebekah and Rachel, were by nature sterile, and therefore God\u8217\'92s special intervention shows His particular favor to Israel. Fruitfulness was God\u8217\'92s special blessing to His people (Ex 23:26; Dt 7:14; Ps 113:9). A complete family is an emblem of beauty (Cant 4:2; 6:6). Metaphorically, Israel, in her days of adversity, when her children were exiled, was barren, but in her restoration she shall rejoice in many children (Isa 54:1; Gal 4:27). The utter despair and terror of the destruction of Jerus could go no farther than that the barren should be called blessed (Lk 23:29).}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= Rees, T. (1915). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/intlbbldict1915?ref=biblio.at%3dBarren%2c%2520Barrenness%7Cau%3dRees%2c%2520T.&off=679&ctx=abeth+(Lk+1:7%2c+36).%0a~In+Israel+and+among+"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 Barren, Barrenness\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 . In J. Orr, J. L. Nuelsen, E. Y. Mullins, & M. O. Evans (Eds.), \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 The International Standard Bible Encyclopaedia\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. 1\endash 5, p. 406). Chicago: The Howard-Severance Company.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}}