{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Now Sarai, Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s wife, had borne him no children. She had a female Egyptian servant whose name was Hagar. And Sarai said to Abram, \u8216\'91Behold now, the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  has prevented me from bearing children. Go in to my servant; it may be that I shall obtain children by her.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 And Abram listened to the voice of Sarai\u8221\'94 (Genesis 16:1-2). Instead of faithfully waiting for God to provide her with a child, Sarah declares that Abraham should cohabit with her servant Hagar in order to produce children for her. Sarah\u8217\'92s desire to procure children in this manner reflects an ancient marriage practice in which an infertile wife would use a surrogate wife, usually a maidservant, to produce a family. Instead of trusting God to fulfill His promise to Abraham through her, Sarah believes that God does not want her to have a child and takes matters into her own hands. She decides to follow a worldly practice (polygamous union) rather than the word of God. Abraham offered no resistance to her idea. Just like Adam in the garden, he \u8216\'91listened\u8217\'92 to the voice of his wife but does not consider the future consequences of this decision. As a result of his passivity, life will become more complicated for Abraham. }}