{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93So, after Abram had lived ten years in the land of Canaan, Sarai, Abram\u8217\'92s wife, took Hagar the Egyptian, her servant, and gave her to Abram her husband as a wife. And he went in to Hagar, and she conceived. And when she saw that she had conceived, she looked with contempt on her mistress\u8221\'94 (Genesis 16:3-4). Having successfully implemented her plan to obtain children by Hagar, things begin to go downhill for Sarai. Whereas  she previously thought she would escape the stigma and shame of barrenness, Hagar becomes arrogant and allows her pride of conception to show contempt towards Sarai.  So we see that in addition to the sins of adultery and polygamy, Sarai and Abram\u8217\'92s decision lead to the sin of disrespectful behavior on Hagar\u8217\'92s part. Family strife continues to intensify as Sarai directs her anger towards Abram - \u8220\'93May the wrong done to me be on you! I gave my servant to your embrace, and when she saw that she had conceived, she looked on me with contempt. May the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  judge between you and me!\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Genesis 16:5). Though she initiated the plan, Sarai now blames Abram for the current state of affairs! It\u8217\'92s entirely possible that Abram, who has been waiting decades for a child, paid more attention to Hagar at this point. Maybe Sarai felt that he favored Hagar over herself for Abram had not intervened to address Hagar\u8217\'92s attitude towards Sarai. In fact, Abram appears to be lame and passive through the entire episode. The man who once conquered armies on the battlefield now appears weak on the home front. In response to Sarai\u8217\'92s complaint, he tells her to deal with the situation as she desired. Perhaps he felt the truth of the proverb that says the earth trembles and cannot bear up the situation in which a maidservant displaces her mistress (Proverbs 30:21-23)! }}