{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Impatience with God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s timing led to Sarah\u8217\'92s plan to build her family through Hagar. Hagar became pregnant with Abraham\u8217\'92s child and their family life began to deteriorate. Sarah\u8217\'92s low self-esteemed plummeted as Hagar scorned her barrenness. And with Abraham\u8217\'92s permission, Sarah went to war against Hagar with bitter rage. The text reads \u8220\'93Sarai dealt harshly with her, and she fled from her\u8221\'94 (Genesis 16:6b). What followed for Hagar is an unexpected encounter with God through which we learn several lessons.}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 God is aware of Hagar\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s plight. He knows that she is being mistreated and has been placed in the middle of a difficult situation. It\u8217\'92s possible that she was given to Abraham and Sarah during their time in Egypt. As a servant, she has very little (if any) control over her life circumstances. She has fled from Sarah out into the wilderness, headed back to Egypt as a pregnant woman without anything. However, the Lord does not allow her to perish in the wilderness. Instead, he sent His messenger to comfort her and to make her aware of her contribution to the conflict. He commands Hagar to return to Abraham\u8217\'92s household and submit to Sarah. As a result of her encounter with the divine, Hagar is to repent of her sin by treating Sarah with respect. As Christians, we must remember that God knows when we have been mistreated. He does not turn a blind eye to the family struggles and relational conflicts we experience. However, God calls us to examine how we sinfully contribute to tensions in our homes, jobs and congregations. Through His word, He commands us to repent and to seek peace in all our relationships - \u8220\'93If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all\u8221\'94 (Romans 12:18).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Despite the sin and mistakes committed by God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s chosen couple, God will greatly multiply the descendants of Abraham through Ishmael (Genesis 16:10). Ishmael, which means \u8220\'93God hears\u8221\'94, will be the father of the non-elect line of Abraham\u8217\'92s descendants who will be strongly independent and who will live in conflict with everyone (Genesis 16:12). Hagar now knows that God has plans for her son and future descendants. She knows that God was looking after her through the conflict with Sarah and that He will protect her when she returns to her mistress. Through this dysfunctional situation, she became the first woman to whom the angel of the Lord appears and to whom God gives a promise. God used Hagar\u8217\'92s lonely moment of desperation in the desert to give her strength and hope for the future. Consequently, she commemorates her encounter with the angel by naming the location Beer-lahai-roi (\u8220\'93belonging to the living one, my seeing one\u8221\'94) and returns to give birth to Ishmael (Genesis 16:15-16).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}