{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}{\f5\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-720\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs28\b1\i0 J.}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0 \tab }{\f1\fs28\b1\i0 Abram Had the Covenant Reconfirmed by God: Aroused Faith\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 the Steps to a Fresh, Stirring Experience with God, 17:1\endash 27}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (17:1\endash 27) }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Introduction}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 : Abram was desperate. He had been wanting a son ever since his marriage to Sara, and they most likely had been married for over fifty years. Thus Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s longing\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 his hopes and dreams\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 to have a son had been gnawing at him for over fifty years. But Sara had been unable to bear children. In desperation, when Abram was an old man, Sara had suggested that Abram take her maid, Hagar, and try to bear a son through her before it was too late. This Abram did, and Ishmael was born. Abram\u8217\'92s dreams for a son were finally realized in Ishmael. Did Abram ever expect to have another son, a son other than Ishmael? Not likely, for he was now ninety-nine years old, and Sara was eighty-nine, both well beyond childbearing years. Abram was well aware of this fact; verse 17 tells us this. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Apparently Abram had felt that Ishmael was the son promised by God, that God was going to fulfill His promises through Ishmael. Abram loved Ishmael dearly. Note verse 18, where Abram cried out for God to remember and bless Ishmael. Ishmael was thirteen years old, and because of Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s life-long desire for a son, he no doubt loved Ishmael more deeply than the average father. The bond between them was probably closer than the bond between most fathers and sons. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Apparently Abram had become comfortable and settled in life, somewhat complacent and lethargic, slumbering and slacking off. Abram just accepted reality: he was too old to bear any more children, and Ishmael was the only child he had. Thus he felt Ishmael was bound to be the son promised by God.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 But as this passage so clearly reveals, this was not God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s plan. Ishmael was not the promised seed, not the son promised to Abram. Thus Abram\u8217\'92s faith needed to be aroused once again. Abram needed God to arouse\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 stir, quicken, awaken\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 his faith to look beyond Ishmael \u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab beyond the present}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab beyond the physical}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab beyond the possible}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abram needed to be renewed, to look at the impossible and to believe in the miraculous power and works of God. Note how this is exactly what we need. When a believer becomes comfortable\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 at ease, complacent, and lethargic\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 in life, he needs to be aroused by God. He needs a fresh, stirring experience with God similar to Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s experience. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This is the subject of this important passage: }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Abram Had the Covenant (Promises) Reconfirmed by God: Aroused Faith\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 the Steps to a Fresh, Stirring Experience with God}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , 17:1\endash 27.}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1.\tab Step 1: receiving a fresh revelation from God: God is the Almighty God (v. 1).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2.\tab Step 2: making a new commitment to walk before God and to live a blameless, perfect life (vv. 1\endash 2).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 3.\tab Step 3: humbling oneself before God and listening to God (vv. 3\endash 5).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 4.\tab Step 4: hearing and believing God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s covenant or promises (vv. 6\endash 8).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 5.\tab Step 5: keeping the covenant and sharing in the ritual of the covenant: keeping its meaning always in one\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s mind (vv. 9\endash 14).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 6.\tab Step 6: changing the relationship to one\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s family (vv. 15\endash 18).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 7.\tab Step 7: accepting the will and purpose of God (vv. 19\endash 21).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 8.\tab Step 8: making a public decision and obeying God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s instructions, His Word (vv. 22\endash 27).}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f3\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge17.1-27&off=6183&ctx=cumcised+with+him.%0a%0a~J.+Abram+Had+the+Cov"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 79). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abram was ninety-nine years old and Sara eighty-nine. It was physically impossible for them to conceive a child. Thus what Abram needed was to see God as }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 El Shaddai}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , the Almighty God, the God who possessed all might and power, the God who could do anything. Almighty God could quicken the bodies of Abram and Sara and make them fertile and cause a son to be born to them. Abram needed to believe this promise; he needed to believe the impossible. Therefore, God revealed Himself as the Almighty God, the God of all power, the God who could fulfill His promise and who could meet the needs of Abram and his dear wife. (See }{\f5\fs20\b0\i0\scaps Deeper Study}{\f5\fs20\b0\i0  # 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Almighty God}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 17:1 for more discussion.)}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . God is the Almighty God; He possesses all might and all power. He can do all things; in fact, there is nothing that God cannot do.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Thus when we face difficult, impossible circumstances, we should seek God, seek the power and promises of God. We should seek a fresh revelation from God, to see God as the Almighty God, as the God who can do all things.}
\par\plain {\f3\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge17.1&off=406&ctx=childbearing+years:+~Abram+was+ninety-nin"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 79\endash 80). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Walk, Spiritual\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Believer, Life}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 : How can we arouse our faith, have a fresh, stirring experience with God? Step two is to make a new commitment to walk before God and to live a perfect or blameless life. The believer\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s life is not a static, complacent life. When God gives us a fresh revelation\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 some new insight or knowledge\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 He expects us to act, to put the new knowledge to use, and to grow thereby. This was true of Abram. God gave Abram a fresh revelation of Himself as the Almighty God, but God also told Abram to recommit his life and to do so more diligently than ever before. God charged Abram to make two commitments:}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 a. He was }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 to walk before God}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 : this means to live step by step in the presence of God; to live moment by moment in fellowship with God; to live in an unbroken consciousness of God; to be always aware of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s presence, power, and security. Three pictures are painted by this descriptive phrase.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab To walk before God means that we live before Him in a spirit of devotion, worship, fellowship and service.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab To walk before God means that we do not walk behind Him nor ahead of Him. But we walk before Him, conscious that He can see us and that He has the power to look after and care for us.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab To walk before God means that we are aware of His power to see and know all, aware that He will judge us for all we do}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f3\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge17.1-2&off=5074&ctx=19:15).%0a%0a2+(17:1%E2%80%932)+~Walk%2c+Spiritual%E2%80%94Beli"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 80\endash 81). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi360\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 He was }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 to be perfect or blameless}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (tamim). This means just what the Hebrew word says: to be sound, complete, without any lack or failure whatsoever; it means to be blameless, without blemish. Scripture is }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 not teaching sinless perfection}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , for no person has or ever will live a }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 sinless}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  and perfect life, no person other than Jesus Christ our Lord. But Scripture is teaching }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 holiness}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , that Abram and all other believers are to walk before God diligently seeking to live perfect, blameless lives. We are \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab to live holy lives before Him}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab to develop a heart that is single-minded, set upon God first and foremost throughout all of life}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab to live lives that are wholly devoted to the Lord}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab to be conformed to the image of Christ}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab to please God with all our hearts}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . We live in days of immorality, lawlessness, and violence; and tragically we make excuse after excuse for our loose living. We do our own thing, live like we want, and try to excuse our sinful behavior by blaming society, environment, circumstances, or the weakness of human nature. But note the words of Arthur W. Pink as he explains the kind of life we are to live before God:\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge17.1-2&off=7309&ctx=ed%E2%80%9D+(1+Jn.+2:6).%0ab.+~He+was+to+be+perfect"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 81). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 How can we arouse our faith, have a fresh, stirring experience with God? Step three is to humble ourselves before God and to listen to God, to His Word, to what He has to say to us. No doubt, Abram immediately fell on his face at the first appearance of God. The brightness of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s glory would strike any person to the ground. The point is this: Abram humbled himself before God; he got as low as he could to show reverence for God, that he was ready to listen and to receive whatever message God had for him. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 God said two things to Abram:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 a. God reminded Abram that it was he who had been chosen to receive the covenant of the promised seed. He and he alone, not someone else, had been chosen to be the father of many nations.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . The stress is upon God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s call, the appointment of Abram to be God\u8217\'92s servant. When God calls us\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 any of us\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 to serve Him, we must humble ourselves before Him and listen to His call.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 b. God changed Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s name to Abraham (v. 5). The meaning of Abram is }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 high father}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ; the meaning of Abraham is }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 the father of a multitude}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . This experience with God was to be a turning point in Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s life: }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 the promised seed}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  was soon to be born through Sarai. Thus God gave Abram a new name to remind him of this experience with God: God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s great call and covenant, of God\u8217\'92s great assurance to fulfill His promise.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b1\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . God has given the believer the very name of His own dear Son, }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Christian}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (Acts 11:26; 26:28; 1 Pe. 4:16). The great need of the hour is for believers to humble themselves before God and remember the great name He has given them, the name of }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Christian}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . The name should remind us \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab of our conversion experience}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab of other deep experiences with God}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s great call to us, the great task He has given each of us to do}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promises (covenant) of His assurance to fulfill the promises made to us}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f3\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge17.3-5&off=21&ctx=+(17:3%E2%80%935)+Humility:+~How+can+we+arouse+ou"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 82). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 There was the promise of }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 the promised seed}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (vv. 6\endash 7). Abraham was to be very fruitful. His descendants were to include nations of people, and some were to be very prominent, holding the highest office possible, that of king. Remember, Abraham was the father of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab the Arabs through Ishmael}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab the Jews through Isaac}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab the nations born of a third wife, Keturah (see Ge. 25:1\endash 4)}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab the believers of the world: Scripture says that we are the spiritual children of Abraham (Ga. 3:7\endash 9; see Ro. 4:11\endash 12)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Now, note what else God says: the promised seed is an everlasting covenant established by Him (v. 7). What does this mean? It means that Abraham will have descendants upon earth as long as the earth stands.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 But note another fact as well: God established the promised seed as an everlasting covenant for a reason: that He might be the God of the promised seed, be their God forever. God wants a personal relationship with Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s descendants; He wants a people with whom He can fellowship and pour out His mercy and grace, a people who will worship, serve, and live for Him eternally.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This is very significant, for it tells us exactly with whom God established the everlasting covenant. The everlasting covenant applies to Abraham and all those who follow in the steps of Abraham. Who are they? Believers. All persons who walk upon earth believing God just as Abraham believed God; all persons who follow after God just like Abraham did. The point is this:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab God gave Abraham the promise of the promised seed, of many nations and descendants.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab But God also gave Abraham a very special promise: that He would establish the covenant of the promised seed }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 forever}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . There would always be those who would do just what Abraham did: believe God and follow diligently after God. And God would be the God of these descendants forever. Note that this is the promise of eternal life\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 an everlasting covenant\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 to those who truly follow after God as Abraham did.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge17.6-8&off=393&ctx=ore+discussion.)%0aa.+~There+was+the+promis"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 82\endash 83). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 b. There was the promise of }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 the promised land}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (Canaan) (v. 8). Note that God also established }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 the promised land}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  as an everlasting covenant. Abraham and his descendants are to possess the land forever. But again, the everlasting, eternal reference must apply to the eternal land of Canaan, to heaven itself. Heaven is the only world that is eternal, that will last forever. The promised land is given to all Jews and Gentiles who believe and follow after God just as Abraham did. God is the God of those who believe in Him and follow Him. True, He wants to be the God of unbelievers, but unbelievers do not believe in Him. They will not let Him be their God. Consequently, God is not the God of unbelievers: the promised land is not theirs eternally. Unbelievers may possess it now, during this world, but they will not possess it eternally, in the perfect world that is coming. (See outline and notes\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 12:1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super c}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  for more discussion.)\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge17.6-8&off=2972&ctx=lso%E2%80%9D+(Ro.+4:3%2c+11).%0a~b.+There+was+the+pro"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 83). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 God gave Abraham the sign or ritual of the covenant: circumcision. The outline of the Scripture is self-explanatory:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1)\tab Circumcision was to include all male children (v. 10).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2)\tab Circumcision was a sign of the covenant and only a sign (v. 11). It was a sign that a person was dedicating and committing his life to believe the promises (covenant) of God and to follow after God with his whole heart.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 3)\tab Circumcision was to be performed at a set time: when the child was eight days old (v. 12).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 4)\tab Circumcision was to include every household: every male, free or enslaved (vv. 12}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super b}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \endash 13).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 5)\tab Circumcision was to be an everlasting sign (v. 13}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super b}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ). What does this mean? How could a physical, earthly, temporal sign be an everlasting sign? It can\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t. Even common sense tells us this. Nothing on this earth lasts forever. God is referring to the meaning lying behind the sign or ritual, referring to the covenant itself. The sign was to remind believers of God\u8217\'92s great covenant established with Abraham \u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab that the promised seed was assured; the Savior would come to the earth, and there would always be a nation of believers who followed after God just as Abraham did, a nation of genuine believers who would live forever.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab that the promised land was assured; the true children of Abraham would inherit the land, an eternal land forever and ever.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 6)\tab Circumcision was to be strictly observed: refusal to share in the ritual was to be severely punished. A man who refused to be circumcised was to be cut off from the people. This meant that the person was to be removed from those who believed the covenant and followed after God, cut off from those who walked after the faith of Abraham.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . What does the ritual of circumcision say to believers today?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (1)\tab Jesus Christ has performed a }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 spiritual circumcision}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  upon believers. He has circumcised the believer, cut away the whole sinful nature of the believer. He cuts away more than just a piece of flesh; He performs radical surgery: He cuts away the whole body of sin, all the sin which the believer has committed and for which he stands guilty\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge17.9-14&off=696&ctx=+that+is+to+come%0ab.+~God+gave+Abraham+the"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 83\endash 84). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Circumcision\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s true circumcision\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 is of the heart, not of the flesh. God never intended circumcision to be only a ritual, a physical sign that one belonged to the people of God. Yes, circumcision was to be a sign, but a sign of spiritual truth: a sign that a person\u8217\'92s heart belonged to God, totally and wholly, a sign that one was following and living for God, fully and completely.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge17.9-14&off=3106&ctx=(Col.+2:11%E2%80%9312).%0a(2)+~Circumcision%E2%80%94God%E2%80%99s+t"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 84). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Warren Wiersbe says this about the believer\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s spiritual circumcision:}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i1 What does all of this [circumcision] mean to Christian believers today?\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85 We have experienced a \u8220\'93spiritual circumcision\u8221\'94 (Col. 2:9\endash 12) that makes us part of the \u8220\'93true circumcision\u8221\'94 (Ph. 3:1\endash 3). When we trusted Christ to save us, the Spirit of God performed \u8220\'93spiritual surgery\u8221\'94 that enables us to have victory over the desires of the old nature and the old life. Circumcision removes only a part of the body, but the true \u8220\'93spiritual circumcision\u8221\'94 puts off \u8220\'93the body of the sins of the flesh\u8221\'94 (Col. 2:11) and deals radically with the sin nature}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i1 This \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93spiritual circumcision\u8221\'94 is accomplished at conversion when the sinner believes in Christ and is baptized by the Spirit into the body of Christ (1 Co. 12:13). This baptism identifies the believer with Christ in His death, burial, resurrection, and ascension, and also in His circumcision (Col. 2:11\endash 12; Luke 2:21). It is not \u8220\'93the circumcision of Moses\u8221\'94 but \u8220\'93the circumcision of Christ\u8221\'94 that is important to the Christian believer}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge17.9-14&off=4045&ctx=t+live%E2%80%9D+(De.+30:6).%0a~Warren+Wiersbe+says+"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 84). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 2}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Old Testament circumcision and New Testament baptism can be compared as follows:}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0


\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx4320

\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx8640

\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\qj{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Circumcision: the cutting away of the flesh meant that one was}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cell 
\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\qj{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Baptism: being immersed in water meant that one was}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cell{
\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx4320

\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx8640
\row}\pard

\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1 \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx4320

\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx8640

\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1.\tab Renouncing the flesh, all human effort in approaching God.}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cell 
\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1.\tab Dying to self and the past (Ro. 6:3; Lu. 9:23).}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cell{
\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1 \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx4320

\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx8640
\row}\pard

\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1 \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx4320

\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx8640

\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2.\tab Willing to believe God and to obey God, to be identified as a follower of God no matter the pain or cost.}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cell 
\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2.\tab Being raised to newness of life, willing to live a new life for Christ no matter the cost (Ro. 6:4).}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cell{
\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1 \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx4320

\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx8640
\row}\pard

\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx4320

\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx8640

\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 3.\tab Becoming identified with the people of God.}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cell 
\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 3.\tab Becoming identified with the followers of Christ, the church (1 Co. 12:13).}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24\b0\i0\cell{
\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx4320

\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx8640
\row}\pard
\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 3}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Romans 4:11 says that God gave circumcision to Abraham for two reasons: to be a sign of Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faith and to be the seal of Abraham\u8217\'92s righteousness. Note the verse:\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge17.9-14&off=5362&ctx=e+flesh%E2%80%9D+(Ph.+3:3).%0a~Thought+2.+Old+Testa"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 84). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Sara\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Family}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 : How can we arouse our faith, have a fresh, stirring experience with God? Step six is to change our relationship to our family.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 a. Note that God honored Sara, greatly honored her. Did Abraham harbor feelings against Sara, secretly blaming her for not being able to bear children? Did he treat her like he should, in love and respect? Was his relationship with her as strong as it should have been? We know that he mistreated her on two occasions, once before this encounter with God and once after (Ge. 12:11\endash 16; 20:2\endash 18). Whatever the case, God honored Sara, and He instructed Abraham to so honor her.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1)\tab God gave }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Sara}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  a new name, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Sarah,\u8221\'94 and He told Abraham to call Sara by that name. \u8220\'93Sarah\u8221\'94 means }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 princess}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Abraham was hereafter to look upon Sarah as a princess, and he was to call and treat her like a princess.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge17.15-18&off=13&ctx=30:6).%0a6+(17:15%E2%80%9318)+~Sara%E2%80%94Family:+How+can"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 85). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Every husband should treat his wife with respect and love, especially if she is a true believer and follower of God. The Christian wife has the promises of God at her disposal. She can claim God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promises and bring great blessing upon the family. Thus, she should be treated as the princess of the family and household.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 2}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . If the Christian husband wants an aroused faith, a fresh, stirring experience with God, he may need to change his relationship with his wife. He may need to change his behavior toward her, begin to treat her with a renewed love and respect, treat her as the princess of the home.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge17.15-18&off=2138&ctx=kings+of+the+earth.%0a~Thought+1.+Every+hus"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 86). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Note that Abraham worshipped in astonishment and prayer (vv. 17\endash 18). He fell to his face again, utterly astonished, laughing with joy and rejoicing flooding his heart. A believer who has been broken, truly broken, while God is flooding him with assurance knows what Abraham was experiencing. He was astonished, just amazed that such a thing could be. Note that he }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 thought to himself}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , wondered at what he had heard:}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93How can Sarah and I have a child? I am one hundred and Sarah is ninety years old. Such is just too wonderful to be true. But it is true, for God has promised it.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 But then, within just a few moments, Abraham thought of his son Ishmael, the only son he had ever known, the son who was then thirteen years old and whom he had grown to love, the son whom he had thought was to be }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 the promised seed}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . It dawned upon Abraham that his relationship with Ishmael was being changed, that Ishmael was not the promised seed. He had been wrong about Ishmael: all his hopes and dreams had been wrapped up in the boy, misplaced and out of line with God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s will. Immediately, Abraham cried out for God to also bless Ishmael, that God would not forget the son whom he loved so much, that God might let Ishmael live under His very special blessing (v. 18).}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Every father should love his children as Abraham loved Ishmael, and he should cry out for God to bless his children, to bless them in a very special way. In fact, a father must love and pray for his children before God will ever arouse his faith, before God will ever give him a fresh, stirring experience with Himself\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge17.15-18&off=3643&ctx=to+a+holocaust.5%0ab.+~Note+that+Abraham+wo"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 86). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 He drove His will into Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s heart:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Sarah was to bear a son, the promised seed (v. 19).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab the son was to be named Isaac (note that God Himself named the son, v. 19).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab the covenant established with Isaac was to be an everlasting covenant (v. 19).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Ishmael was to be blessed, especially blessed, in answer to Abraham\u8217\'92s prayer: Ishmael was to become a great nation of twelve rulers (v. 20).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Note that God reconfirmed His will a third time in verse 21: the covenant of the promised seed and promised land was to be established with Isaac, not with Ishmael nor with anyone else. The promised Savior was to come through Isaac and his descendants, the Jews. As Scripture clearly says, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Salvation is of the Jews\u8221\'94 (Jn. 4:22). Note also that God set the time for Isaac\u8217\'92s birth: he was to be born about one year later (v. 21).}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . We must follow the example of Abraham: accept and surrender to the will and purpose of God. Whatever God calls us to do, we must do it. We must surrender to His will for our lives. This is the only way we can ever have an aroused faith. God cannot give us a fresh, stirring experience with Himself unless we surrender to His will.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge17.19-21&off=530&ctx=s+will+and+purpose%3b+~He+drove+His+will+in"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 86\endash 87). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Decision\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Obedience}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 : How can we arouse our faith, have a fresh, stirring experience with God? Step eight is to make a public decision and obey God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s instructions, His Word. Note: as soon as God had finished speaking with Abraham, Abraham got up and acted: he took his whole household and did exactly what God said to do. He obeyed God\u8217\'92s instructions, God\u8217\'92s Word. His decision was made public, for God\u8217\'92s instructions were to involve the whole household.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 a. Abraham led his whole household to obey God, to enter into the covenant relationship: all the men and boys were circumcised (v. 22).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 b. He took the lead, setting the example in the covenant relationship at an old age: he was circumcised at age ninety-nine (v. 23).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 c. He led his own child to obey God, to enter into the covenant relationship\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 at the early age of thirteen (v. 25).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 d. The account is reemphasized: to stress the importance of the covenant relationship (v. 27).}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Every adult should make a public decision and obey God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s instructions, His Word. And every adult should lead his or her household to obey God, to enter into the covenant relationship with God: to accept the promised Savior and the promised land of heaven. If we want God to arouse our faith, to give us a fresh, stirring experience with Himself, we must obey His Word. We must publicly act on His Word, witness and bear testimony to our household.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge17.22-27&off=13&ctx=5:24).%0a8+(17:22%E2%80%9327)+~Decision%E2%80%94Obedience:+"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 87). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}