{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f5\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs28\b1\i0 Exegetical Notes to Act 2, Scene 2}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Abraham the Progenitor of Numerous Nations and of Kings; His Name Is Changed (17:1\endash 8)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 1. ninety-nine.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  See above, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Literary Analysis: Blank, Janus, and Inclusio.\u8221\'94 Ishmael, age twelve or thirteen, is entering manhood (cf. 16:16). God must make clear to Abraham that Ishmael is not the blessing carrier.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 I am God Almighty}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  [}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u702\'3F\u275\'65l \u353\'9Aadday}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ]. El Shaddai, God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s principal name in the pre-Mosaic period (cf. Ex. 6:2\endash 3), may signify his universal dominion. Shaddai is attested primarily in Genesis and Job, as a theophoric element in three personal names of tribal representatives at the time of the Exodus (Num. 1\endash 2), and in an Egyptian servant\u8217\'92s name, probably Semitic, of the late fourteenth century }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps b.c.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Because of its antiquity, its meaning was lost by the time of the translators. The }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps lxx}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , among many other ways, rendered it by \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93your God.\u8221\'94 Jerome based his translations (}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 deus omnipotens}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ) \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93God Almighty\u8221\'94 and its equivalents on another rendering in the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps lxx}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 kyrios pantokrat\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u333\'6Fr}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (Job 15:25). The Targum often transliterated the term. Like the ancient translators, modern scholarship has reached no consensus on the basis of philology. The most probable suppositions are (1) \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The Powerful, Strong One\u8221\'94 from the root }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u353\'9Add;}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  and (2) \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The One Who Suffices\u8221\'94 from }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u353\'9Ae}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  and }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 day}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Whatever its exact meaning, the contextual uses suggest, as Wenham states, that \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Shaddai evokes the idea that God is able to make the barren fertile and to fulfill his promises.\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\super 126}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\super
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 walk before me and be blameless.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  See 6:9. Total obedience is the necessary condition to experience the covenant promises. To walk before God means to orient one\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s entire life to his presence, promises, and demands. Westermann states, \u8220\'93God orders Abraham (now representing Israel) to live his life before God in such a way that every single step is made with reference to God and every day experiences him close at hand.\u8221\'94 This significant command is later repeated to Israelite kings (Solomon, 1 Kings 9:4\endash 5; Hezekiah, 2 Kings 20:3). Such a high standard is appropriate for Abraham, who will become the father of kings (cf. Gen. 24:40; 48:15).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 blameless.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  The Hebrew word signifies wholeness of relationship and integrity rather than no sin (see 6:9).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 2. I will confirm.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This is better translated \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93that I might give.\u8221\'94 Although Abraham is responsible to walk in companionship with God and to abstain from sin, the covenant is still entirely a gift from God.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 my covenant.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  The three divisions of this covenant\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93As for me \u8230\'85\u8221\'94 (17:4\endash 8), \u8220\'93As for you \u8230\'85\u8221\'94 (17:9\endash 14), and \u8220\'93As for Sarai \u8230\'85\u8221\'94 (17:15\endash 16)\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 recognize the obligations of all the partners. God promises commitment to Abraham and his offspring (17:4\endash 8, 15\endash 16); they follow his commands (17:9\endash 14). This unequal partnership always depends on the divine presence and provisions.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 3. Abram fell facedown.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This is a typical act of worship (Lev. 9:24; Josh. 5:14; Ezek. 1:28).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 4. As for me.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This formula marks the first division of the covenant obligations: God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s responsibilities.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 5. Abram \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85 Abraham.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  See 11:26. His former name spoke of his noble God, of his noble ancestry, or of his own eminence; his new name speaks of his many offspring. This is the name God will make great (12:2). Abram, composed of }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u702\'3F\u257\'61b}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93father\u8221\'94) and }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 r\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u257\'61m}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93to be high\u8221\'94), means \u8220\'93Exalted Father,\u8221\'94 a reference either to God, Terah, or himself. His new name Abraham, by a word play of }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u702\'3F\u257\'61b}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93father\u8221\'94) plus }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 h\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u257\'61m}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 h\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u257\'61m\u244\'F4n}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93crowd\u8221\'94), sounds like \u8220\'93father of a multitude.\u8221\'94 Although this etymology is disputed, this is how the text explains his name: \u8220\'93[because I will make you] the father of many nations [}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u702\'3F\u257\'61\u7687\'3F-h}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1\super a}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 m\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u244\'F4n}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ]\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (17:4 and 5).}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 have made you.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  The Hebrew is better translated, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I will make you.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 father of many nations.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  See 15:5; 28:3. In \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Theme of Genesis and Biblical Theology\u8221\'94 (see introduction), I argue that God\u8217\'92s promise to make Abraham a father of many nations should be understood in both a biological sense and in a spiritual sense. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The biological interpretation is validated by the genealogies of Keturah (25:1\endash 4), Ishmael (Book 7, Gen. 25:12\endash 18), and Edom (Book 9, Gen. 36). }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The interpretation that he fathers the nations that reproduce his faith finds support both within the immediate text and within the canon. In contrast to the promise that kings will come out of his loins, it is not said the nations he fathers are thus begotten. Moreover, circumcision, the sign of the covenant, is extended to every male in Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s household, \u8220\'93whether born in your household or bought with your money\u8221\'94 (17:12\endash 13; see also Theological Reflections below). }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The psalmist (Ps. 87:4\endash 6) and the apostle Paul (Rom. 4:16\endash 17; cf. Gal. 3:15\endash 19) both interpret the text with reference to the Gentiles becoming Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s offspring. According to this spiritual interpretation, \u8220\'93father\u8221\'94 designates a spiritual relationship; it is so used to describe the relationship of Joseph to Pharaoh (Gen. 45:8) and a Levite to Micah (Judg. 17:10).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 kings.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  In primary view are Israel\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s kings (see 35:11; 49:10; 2 Sam. 7:8\endash 16) but also the messianic king (see Theological Reflections below).}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 will come from you.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This is a reference to physical offspring.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 7. everlasting covenant.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  See 12:3; 15:5. God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s covenant endures forever because he is faithful and does not change (see Theological Reflections below).}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 between me and you and your descendants.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This legal formulation guarantees that at the death of the owner the land will be passed on to the next generation in perpetuity.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 to be your God.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This is the heart of the covenant, guaranteeing that God will protect his people and provide them with life and prosperity (cf. 17:8; Jer. 24:7; 31:33; Ezek. 34:30\endash 31; Hos. 2:1; Zech. 8:8).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 8. land \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85 everlasting possession.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  See 13:15. Later \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93this gift of an unending covenant\u8221\'94 (God, seed, land) will become \u8220\'93a critical affirmation for Israel in the time of the exile in Babylon,\u8221\'94 enabling them to hope for the future.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Canaan.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  See 12:1, 7; 13:15; and 15:18 regarding the Promised Land.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Law of Circumcision Set Forth (17:9\endash 14)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 9. As for you.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This marks the second division of the covenant obligations: Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s responsibilities.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 keep my covenant.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Wenham explains, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Whereas inaugurating the covenant was entirely the result of divine initiative, confirming it involves a human response, summed up in v 1 by \u8216\'91walk in my presence and be blameless\u8217\'92 and spelled out in the demand to circumcise every male.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 10. circumcised.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This ritual marks something as set apart. Here the organ of procreation is consecrated to God (cf. Deut. 30:6; Jer. 4:4). Roop argues that circumcision is also a sign of solidarity. The circumcised become members of the community with whom God has an unending relationship (see Theological Reflections below).}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 12. eight days old.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Some cultures circumcise their children at puberty as a rite of passage from childhood to adulthood in the community. God employed the sign for infants to show that the children, coming under the authority of the parent who confesses faith, are \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93holy\u8221\'94 (i.e., they are separated from the profane world and belong to the covenant community; see Rom. 11:16; 1 Cor. 7:14). Fox argues that circumcision in infancy is a \u8220\'93daring re-interpretation, at once defusing the act of exclusively sexual content while at the same time suggesting that the covenant is a lifelong commitment. The males of the tribe are not simply made holy for marriage. They bear the mark upon their bodies as a sacred reminder of their mission.\u8221\'94 By the eighth day the baby has completed the cycle of time corresponding to the course of creation (cf. Ex. 22:30; Lev. 22:27).}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 born \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85 bought \u8230\'85 not your offspring.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  The covenant promises are extended to all the circumcised, who are reckoned as members of the faithful family (cf. 14:14).}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 13. covenant in your flesh \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85 everlasting.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  The finite physical mark symbolizes a spiritual reality as indicated by Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s spiritual fatherhood and the promise of an everlasting covenant. The Hebrew }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u703\'3F\u244\'F4l\u257\'61m}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , translated \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93everlasting,\u8221\'94 means \u8220\'93the most distant time,\u8221\'94 a relative concept according to a text\u8217\'92s horizon (cf. Ex. 12:14; 27:21; Lev. 3:17; Num. 10:8; Deut. 15:17). As long as God administered his nation by their physical lineage from Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the sign of physical circumcision endured.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 14. will be cut off.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  God will sever the disloyal descendant from the covenant community and from its benefits of blessing and life. The disloyal is doomed to extinction and is liable to premature death.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 he has broken.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This expresses the opposite of keeping God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s covenant (17:9).}
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Sarah the Progenitrix of Numerous Nations and of Kings; Her Name Is Changed (17:15\endash 22)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 15. As for Sarai.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This marks the third division of the covenant obligations: the responsibilities of Sarah and Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s seed.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Sarai \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85 Sarah.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s importance to salvation history is borne out by the fact that she is the only woman in the Bible whose name is changed and whose age at death is detailed (23:1). The exact meaning of her name change is unclear. Though the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps lxx}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  associates the new name }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 Sarah}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  with a Hebrew word meaning \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93strife,\u8221\'94 both }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 Sarai}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  and }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 Sarah}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  are probably dialectical variants meaning \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93princess.\u8221\'94 The promise that she will bear kings supports this interpretation. }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 Sarai}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , her birth-name, probably looks back on her noble descent, whereas }{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 Sarah}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , her covenantal name, looks ahead to her noble descendants (see \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93father of many nations,\u8221\'94 17:5).}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 16. bless her \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85 give you a son.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  See 1:22; 12:2.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 nations \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85 kings \u8230\'85 from her.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Primarily her spiritual motherhood is in view (see \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93father of many nations,\u8221\'94 17:5).}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 17. fell facedown.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Is his humble posture (see 17:3) a cover-up for his inner skepticism?}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 laughed.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Abraham again stumbles in incredulity after the covenant has been given (cf. 12:10\endash 20). Isaac means \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93he laughs.\u8221\'94 The name is punned upon in 18:12\endash 15; 21:6.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 18. If only Ishmael.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  As Roop describes, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Abraham reacts \u8230\'85 not with joy and celebration, but with consternation: it is a complication in his life.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 19. you will call him Isaac.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Isaac\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s name means \u8220\'93he laughs.\u8221\'94 It is as if God, responding to Abraham\u8217\'92s doubtful laughter, says, \u8220\'93You laugh, but I will bring about my promises with joy.\u8221\'94 Both Abraham and Sarah first laugh in disbelief (see 18:12), but at Isaac\u8217\'92s birth Sarah will laugh with joy at the supernatural work of grace (21:1\endash 7; Rom. 4:19\endash 21).}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 20. as for Ishmael \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85 twelve rulers \u8230\'85 great nation.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  God pastorally reassures Abraham that Ishmael will not be excluded from a blessing. Indeed he too will father a great nation, with twelve tribes corresponding to the twelve tribes of Israel (cf. 25:12\endash 16).}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 21. with Isaac.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Isaac represents the living God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s triumph over barrenness. By his own sovereign counsel the Lord elects Isaac, not Ishmael. The Lord\u8217\'92s chosen race will not come by natural generation but by supernatural grace at the ordained time (see Rom. 9:6\endash 13).}
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Law of Circumcision Carried Out (17:23\endash 27)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 23. On that very day.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  This expression marks a significant moment (see also 7:13): the scene\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s climax when Abraham shows himself a faithful covenant partner by immediately fulfilling his obligations.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 26. Ishmael.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Both the elect and nonelect children receive the sign of the covenant.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge17.1-27&off=13335"}{\fldrslt\f5\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 258\endash 263). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}