{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93When Abram was ninety-nine years old the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  appeared to Abram and said to him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91I am God Almighty; walk before me, and be blameless, that I may make my covenant between me and you, and may multiply you greatly\u8217\'92\u8221\'94 (Genesis 17:1-2). The Lord appeared to Abram when he most needed reassurance and encouragement to remain faithful. The Lord reveals Himself as \u8216\'91God Almighty\u8217\'92 (El Shaddai), the omnipotent One who possesses all power to fulfill His promises and who can make Abram and Sarah fertile in their old age. Abram needed to believe that the Lord could achieve the impossible in their lives. He needed to understand that it would be by the power and grace of God that they would conceive a child. God often uses difficult and humanly impossible circumstances to move us to greater levels of trust in Him. He uses our weaknesses as occasions to display His power. Our attitude needs to be the same as the apostle Paul who wrote \u8220\'93therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me\u8221\'94 (2 Corinthians 12:9b).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 However, the experience of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s grace and power does not release us from the necessity of obedient faith. If Abram wanted to inherit the covenant promises, he would have to make God the number one focus of his life. Every step he took would have to be made asking \u8220\'93Is this God\u8217\'92s will for me?\u8221\'94 He would have walk before the Lord fully aware of His power to fulfill His promises. In addition, the Lord called him to be \u8216\'91blameless\u8217\'92. This word is used to describe Noah in Genesis 6:9 -  \u8220\'93Noah was a righteous man, blameless in his generation.\u8221\'94 This does not mean God would only fulfill His promise if Abram lived sinlessly for the rest of his life. It means that Abram is to live as Noah, who was wholly devoted to God and did not conform to the immorality of his generation. God expects the same of His faithful people today.  God calls us to live holy lives before Him, to develop hearts that are totally devoted to Him, to be busy about putting to death our old sinful habits and to be conformed to the image of Christ.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s response to the Lord is reverential worship - \u8220\'93Then Abram fell on his face\u8221\'94 (Genesis 17:3). He recognized that the Lord is the all-powerful King of the universe and that he is His servant. Such reverence can be learned as we read God\u8217\'92s words. The more we saturate our hearts and minds in God\u8217\'92s great promises, the more we are impressed with the mercies of God. Our proper response to God\u8217\'92s power and mercy is to humble and offer ourselves to God as holy and acceptable living sacrifices (Romans 12:1-2).  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The Lord reminds Abram of and expands upon His covenant responsibilities. Whereas God previously promised to make of Abram a great nation, now He promises that Abram will \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93be the father of a multitude of nations\u8221\'94  and changes his name to \u8216\'91Abraham\u8217\'92 to relect his new identity (Genesis 17:4). These nations will include those that come from Isaac, Ishmael (Genesis 25:12-18), Keturah (25:1-4), and Esau (Edom).  Furthermore, Abraham will be the spiritual father of an untold number of nations that reproduce his faith - all Christians are the spiritual children of Abraham (Romans 4:16-17). The covenant between God and Abraham is an everlasting covenant because God Himself is faithful and does not change. Abraham will die before the final fulfillment of the promise, but God guarantees its fulfillment through his offspring. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}