{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Verse 1, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93When Abram was ninety-nine years old, the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  appeared to Abram, and said to him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91I am God Almighty; walk before me, and be blameless.\u8217\'92\~\u8221\'94 The }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  introduces himself as the great King, }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u702\'3F\u274\'45l \u352\'8Aadday}{\f0\fs24 , \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93God Almighty.\u8221\'94 The etymology of }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u702\'3F\u274\'45l \u352\'8Aadday}{\f0\fs24  is \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93obscure, but wherever it is used in Genesis, it is associated with divine omnipotence, his ability to fulfill his promises and especially to make the barren fertile (28:3; 35:11; 48:3).\u8221\'94 The great King desires to make a covenant, a sacred treaty, with Abram. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 But before God Almighty specifies the covenant promises, he succinctly states the conditions Abram must meet: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Walk before me, and be blameless.\u8221\'94 Abram is to be like Noah, of whom we read, \u8220\'93Noah was a righteous man, }{\f0\fs24\i1 blameless}{\f0\fs24  in his generation; Noah walked with God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Gen 6:9). }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 With Noah God had also made a covenant. The sign of that covenant was the rainbow. Now God is ready to make with Abram a special covenant with the sign of circumcision. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Like Noah, Abram has to walk with God\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 literally, he has to walk \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f0\fs24\i1 before}{\f0\fs24  God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (v. 1). \u8220\'93This phrase [\u8216\'91before God\u8217\'92] usually expresses the service or devotion of a faithful servant to his king.\u8221\'94 It means to live in such a way \u8220\'93that every single step is made with reference to God and every day experiences him close at hand.\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\super 15}{\f0\fs24  }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 And like Noah, Abram is to be blameless. The Hebrew word translated \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93blameless\u8221\'94 does not mean \u8220\'93sinless\u8221\'94 but \u8220\'93whole\u8221\'94: \u8220\'93It signifies complete, unqualified surrender.\u8221\'94 Abram is to be wholly devoted to God, his King.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Greidanus, S. (2007). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/prchngchrstgnss?ref=Bible.Ge17.1-27&off=23565&ctx=gn+of+the+covenant.%0a~Verse+1%2c+%E2%80%9CWhen+Abram"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Preaching Christ from Genesis: Foundations for Expository Sermons\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 168\endash 169). Grand Rapids, MI; Cambridge, U.K.: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 God continues speaking to Abram, verse 2, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And I will make my covenant between me and you, and will make you exceedingly numerous.\u8221\'94 Nine times in this narrative, God speaks of }{\f0\fs24\i1 my}{\f0\fs24  covenant. It is God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s covenant; he initiates this sacred treaty. And God promises to make Abram \u8220\'93exceedingly numerous.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 In response to God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s words, Abram falls \u8220\'93on his face,\u8221\'94 that is, he prostrates himself before God the way servants bow down before their king. He acknowledges the \u8220\'93master-servant footing of the covenant.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Then, while Abram is lying face down like a servant before his King, God says to him, verse 4, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93As for me, this is my covenant with you: You shall be the ancestor [father] of a multitude of nations. No longer shall your name be Abram, but your name shall be Abraham; for I have made you the ancestor [father] of a multitude of nations.\u8221\'94 The great King gives his servant a new name\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 a name that gives expression to God\u8217\'92s covenant promise to make Abraham \u8220\'93the father of a multitude of nations.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Throughout the Near East the inauguration of a new era or a new state policy would frequently be marked by the assumption of a new name expressive of the change on the part of the king.\u8221\'94 Here God Almighty begins a new phase with his servant Abraham. God explains the meaning of the name Abraham: \u8220\'93father of a multitude of nations.\u8221\'94 Twenty-four years earlier, God had promised Abram, \u8220\'93I will make of you a great nation\u8221\'94 (Gen 12:2). But now God promises that Abraham will be the \u8220\'93father of a }{\f0\fs24\i1 multitude}{\f0\fs24  of nations.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 This is an important turning point for Abraham. The new name is \u8220\'93a divinely guaranteed statement about Abraham\u8217\'92s identity and future destiny. His very name guarantees that he will father many nations.\u8221\'94 It confirms God\u8217\'92s initial promise to Abram: \u8220\'93in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed\u8221\'94 (Gen 12:3).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Greidanus, S. (2007). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/prchngchrstgnss?ref=Bible.Ge17.1-27&off=25077&ctx=d+to+God%2c+his+King.%0a~God+continues+speaki"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Preaching Christ from Genesis: Foundations for Expository Sermons\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 169\endash 170). Grand Rapids, MI; Cambridge, U.K.: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 God Almighty continues to stress this new phase in Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s life in verses 6 and 7, \u8220\'93I will make you exceedingly fruitful; and I will make nations of you, and kings shall come from you. I will establish my covenant between me and you, and your offspring after you throughout their generations, for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and to your offspring after you.\u8221\'94 Two new items stand out. First, this is not a temporary covenant but an \u8220\'93everlasting covenant,\u8221\'94 similar to the \u8220\'93everlasting covenant\u8221\'94 God made with Noah and every living creature (9:16). This covenant is made with Abraham and his seed after him \u8220\'93throughout their generations.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Second, the promise \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93to be God to you\u8221\'94 is the essence, the core, of this covenant. \u8220\'93The essential heart of the covenant is defined: \u8216\'91I shall be their God.\u8217\'92 I, El Shaddai the omnipotent creator of the world and redeemer of mankind, will be Israel\u8217\'92s God. This nation descended from Abraham is to be unique, because unlike the other nations, Israel enjoys a unique relationship with the only true God.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 In verse 8 God repeats the essence of his covenant, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And I will give to you, and to your offspring after you, the land where you are now an alien, all the land of Canaan, for a perpetual holding; and }{\f0\fs24\i1 I will be their God}{\f0\fs24 .\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 This is what God will do for Abraham and his seed.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= Greidanus, S. (2007). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/prchngchrstgnss?ref=Bible.Ge17.1-27&off=26908&ctx=lessed%E2%80%9D+(Gen+12:3).%0a~God+Almighty+continu"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Preaching Christ from Genesis: Foundations for Expository Sermons\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 170). Grand Rapids, MI; Cambridge, U.K.: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Jesus established this new covenant the night before he died. At the Last Supper he told his disciples, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93This cup that is poured out for you is the }{\f0\fs24\i1 new}{\f0\fs24  covenant in my blood\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Luke 22:20). The author of Hebrews confirms that Jesus established this new covenant: \u8220\'93For this reason he [Christ] is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance, because a death has occurred that redeems them from the transgressions under the first covenant\u8221\'94 (Heb 9:15; cf. Eph 3:6).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 But what happened to God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s covenant stipulation that, as a sign of covenant membership, all males be circumcised? Jesus was circumcised (Luke 2:21), but after his resurrection he sent his disciples out not to circumcise but to baptize: \u8220\'93Make disciples of all nations, }{\f0\fs24\i1 baptizing}{\f0\fs24  them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Matt 28:19). }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The first Church Council in Jerusalem considered the all-important question whether Gentile believers should still be circumcised in this new age Jesus had inaugurated. This Council decided, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93It has seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to impose on you no further burden than these essentials: that you abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols and from blood and from what is strangled and from fornication\u8221\'94 (Acts 15:28). The painful rite of circumcision is no longer required for covenant membership. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Jesus shed his precious blood once for all, thus ending the bloody rites and sacrifices of the old covenant. Paul insists to the Galatians (6:15) that \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93neither circumcision nor uncircumcision is anything; but a new creation is everything!\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Baptism now becomes the sign of covenant membership. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93As many of you as were }{\f0\fs24\i1 baptized}{\f0\fs24  into Christ have clothed yourselves with Christ. There is no longer Jew or Greek; there is no longer slave or free; there is no longer male and female; for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you belong to Christ, then you are }{\f0\fs24\i1 Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s offspring}{\f0\fs24 , heirs according to the promise\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Gal 3:27\endash 29; cf. Col 2:11\endash 14). }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 In this new covenant, not only males but also females receive the sign of baptism.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Greidanus, S. (2007). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/prchngchrstgnss?ref=Bible.Ge17.1-27&off=41441&ctx=hearts+(Jer+31:33).%0a~Jesus+established+th"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Preaching Christ from Genesis: Foundations for Expository Sermons\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 176\endash 177). Grand Rapids, MI; Cambridge, U.K.: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}