{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Now God states Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s covenant responsibility -  \u8220\'93This is my covenant, which you shall keep, between me and you and your offspring after you: Every male among you shall be circumcised\u8221\'94 (Genesis 17:10). Just as the rainbow was the sign of God\u8217\'92s covenant with Noah, circumcision becomes the sign of this covenant. Circumcision, the cutting of the foreskin from the genitalia, was to be performed on male infants the eighth day after their birth and on all older males, even upon slaves and foreigners born outside of Abraham\u8217\'92s household. Hamilton notes that the Lord established circumcision as the sign of the covenant to bear witness to Abraham\u8217\'92s faith in God\u8217\'92s promises. It was an amen to the Lord\u8217\'92s word as was his faith in Genesis }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://73EFCA2F-870F-45AE-8A5F-AC6306668F00"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 15:6}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Those who rejected circumcision, thus the condition of being included in the covenant, were to be cut off from God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s people (Genesis 17:14).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 As Christians, we participate in the new covenant established by Jesus the night before he died. While instituting the Lord\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s Supper he told his disciples, \u8220\'93This cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood\u8221\'94 (Luke 22:20). After his resurrection, the Lord sent out his disciples not to circumcise, but to call would-be Christians to faith and baptism: \u8220\'93Go into all the world and proclaim the gospel to the whole creation. Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned\u8221\'94 (Mark 16:15-16). God\u8217\'92s promise to Abraham crosses racial, national, and gender boundaries according to Galatians 3:26-29: \u8220\'93for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you are Christ\u8217\'92s, then you are Abraham\u8217\'92s offspring, heirs according to promise.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}