{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Next, the Lord reveals to Abraham Sarai\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s role in the covenant: \u8220\'93As for Sarai your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall be her name. I will bless her, and moreover, I will give you a son by her. I will bless her, and she shall become nations; kings of peoples shall come from her\u8221\'94 (Genesis 17:15-17). God honored Sarai and included her in the covenantal promises despite her earlier attempt to do things her way. He gave Sarai a new name and identity, \u8220\'93Sarah\u8221\'94, which in the original Hebrew means \u8220\'93princess\u8221\'94. If Abraham will be the father of many nations, Sarah will be the mother. God said He will indeed end her barrenness and bless her with a son. In response to the Lord\u8217\'92s revelation, Abraham humbly falls to his knees and laughs because he finds God\u8217\'92s statement incredible. He deeply loves his oldest son Ishmael and requests that the Lord\u8217\'92s covenantal promise be upon him. Ishmael will indeed be blessed, but the Almighty God has different plans regarding the elect. By His supernatural grace, God will enable Sarah to conceive a child by Abraham on the Lord\u8217\'92s time table! Decades of barrenness will not prevent God from fulfilling His promises through Sarah. Isaac, which means \u8220\'93he laughs\u8221\'94, will be a living reminder of the power and miraculous blessings of God. }}