{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The goal of this lesson series is to examine the life of Abraham in order better learn what it means to live by faith. The thirteen lessons in this book were previously taught at the Westview church of Christ in Huntsville, AL in 2017 as part of a year-long journey through the book of Genesis. Personally, I experienced a deeper awareness of the power and majesty of our Sovereign God. Despite humanity\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s rebellion, He has mercifully chosen to extend His love to us so that we might have life with Him. I have been deeply humbled by the fact that He has chosen to love and use flawed men and women throughout history to accomplish His grand purpose of salvation. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In the command to put on the armor of God, the apostle Paul wrote, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93in all circumstances take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one\u8221\'94 (Ephesians 6:16). Paul envisioned the Christian life as a battle against an adversary who would launch flaming darts of unbelief, selfishness, fear, conflict, and disappointment against the believer. The only way the Christian can survive such an onslaught is through the power and protection of God. Trust in and reliance upon God is an absolute necessity for surviving the spiritual battle we\u8217\'92re in. Prayerfully the lessons in this book will encourage you take up your shield daily.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}