{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs28\b1 Exegetical Notes to Book 6, Act 2, Scene 3}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1 Incident One: Announcement of Isaac\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s Birth (18:1\endash 15)}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i1 Appearance of Divine Visitors (18:1\endash 2)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 1. appeared.}{\f0\fs24  To \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93appear\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93see\u8221\'94 is a key of this scene (18:1, 2 [2x], 21; see also 19:1, 28).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 The }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1  appeared.}{\f0\fs24  With the Lord\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s return appearance (see 17:1), he confirms his revelation of 17:19 and declares certain and swift fulfillment. This appearance also clearly identifies Abraham as a prophet who is given foreknowledge of God\u8217\'92s plans and judgments.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 great trees of Mamre.}{\f0\fs24  See 13:18; 14:13.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 entrance to his tent.}{\f0\fs24  Contrast this with 19:1. Abraham sits in the shade of a sojourner\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s tent, a welcoming place to travelers; Lot will sit at the gate of an evil city, hazardous to strangers who enter.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 heat of the day.}{\f0\fs24  Abraham lives by his subjective experience of the day\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s downy light, noon-day heat, and cool evening breeze, not by hours and minutes. During the heat of the day travelers seek shade and rest. Abraham does not appear inconvenienced by the interruption of his siesta or by the labor he must do in the day\u8217\'92s heat.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 2. three men.}{\f0\fs24  This is actually the Lord and two angels (see 18:1, 10; 19:1). The later identifications of the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93men\u8221\'94 (18:10, 13, 16\endash 17, 33; 19:1) confirm their manifest difference. One man is none other than the Lord, as 18:2\endash 3 and especially 10, 13\endash 15 make explicit. However, the Lord and his heavenly assembly in their incarnation appear in human form (see 16:7).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 standing nearby.}{\f0\fs24  The narrator describes the oriental equivalent of knocking at the door.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 When he saw them, he hurried.}{\f0\fs24  Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s rush to welcome his guests is immediate.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 bowed low to the ground.}{\f0\fs24  Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s address, \u8220\'93my }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (see below) and his reference to himself as \u8220\'93your servant\u8221\'94 are accompanied with an appropriate gesture of awe and humility (18:3).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge18.1-33&off=3779"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 266\endash 267). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i1 Abraham\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s Hospitality (18:3\endash 8)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 3. found favor.}{\f0\fs24  This is always spoken to one of higher rank.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 my lord.}{\f0\fs24  This is better translated \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93my }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 .\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 The translation \u8220\'93my lord\u8221\'94 is misleading, since the Hebrew text refers to a title for God. }{\f0\fs24\scaps niv}{\f0\fs24  translates the same Hebrew in 18:27 as \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the Lord\u8221\'94 (see 18:1, 13, 17), although it should be written in upper case. Abraham addresses \u8220\'93the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (singular) in 18:3 and all three men (plural) in 18:4\endash 5.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 your servant.}{\f0\fs24  The consummate host offers himself humbly.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 4\endash 5. wash your feet \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85 rest \u8230\'85 eat \u8230\'85 refreshed.}{\f0\fs24  Abraham attends to all his guests\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 unspoken needs.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 6\endash 7. hurried \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85 Quick \u8230\'85 ran \u8230\'85 hurried.}{\f0\fs24  The narrator creates an intimate picture of Abraham, the consummate host, rushing to prepare a great feast for his guests. Throughout the story Abraham is completely at their service.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 6. seahs.}{\f0\fs24  A seah is two gallons (eight liters) of a grain.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 fine flour.}{\f0\fs24  Given the rapid preparation of Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s meal, it is likely that he also offered bread without yeast, but the narrator blanks this fact to feature Abraham\u8217\'92s bread made of fine flour in contrast with Lot\u8217\'92s bread made without yeast (see 19:3).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 7\endash 8. choice, tender calf \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85 curds and milk.}{\f0\fs24  Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s offering of \u8220\'93something to eat\u8221\'94 turns out to be a royal banquet. In the ancient Near East, goat\u8217\'92s milk was especially prized because of its energy and easy digestibility.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 8. While they ate.}{\f0\fs24  The narrator slows the story from action to dialogue. The initiative passes to the strangers, specifically to \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 as the prime speaker.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge18.3-8&off=914"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 267). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i1 Annunciation of Isaac\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s Birth (18:9\endash 15)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 9. Where.}{\f0\fs24  This is a rhetorical question, since the Lord knew what Sarah was doing behind him (see 18:13\endash 15). The question conveys the Lord\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s concern and secures Sarah\u8217\'92s attention for the announcement.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 10. I will surely return.}{\f0\fs24  This is a clear indication that the speaker is the Lord, since he alone can faithfully promise life out of barrenness and decay.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 about this time next year.}{\f0\fs24  The promise (15:4) and covenant (17:16\endash 21) is now escalated to a precise time.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 Sarah \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85 son.}{\f0\fs24  God makes a promise demanding faith (see below, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93God\u8217\'92s Promise and Faith\u8221\'94 in the Theological Reflections).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 11. past the age of childbearing.}{\f0\fs24  The Hebrew literally reads, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Sarah no longer experienced the cycle of women.\u8221\'94 Her body is procreatively dead (see Rom. 4:19; Heb. 11:11\endash 12; see also \u8220\'93God\u8217\'92s Promise and Faith\u8221\'94 below).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 12. Sarah laughed.}{\f0\fs24  Both Abraham and Sarah first laugh unbelievingly at God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promises (see 17:17).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 my master.}{\f0\fs24  See 1 Peter 3:6. Sarah understands her social identity and significance in her relationship to Abraham.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 pleasure.}{\f0\fs24  This is a unique Hebrew term, of uncertain meaning, translated \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93conception\u8221\'94 by an ancient Aramaic translation, \u8220\'93lust\u8221\'94 by }{\f0\fs24\i1 HALOT}{\f0\fs24 ,}{\f0\fs24\super 144}{\f0\fs24  and \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93delight\u8221\'94 by J. D. Price. Abraham and Sarah have accepted barrenness as normal.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 13\endash 14. Why did Sarah laugh \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85 is anything too hard.}{\f0\fs24  As assurance of his miraculous power, the Lord verbalizes Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s secret thoughts. His rhetorical question declares that, since he is God, everything is possible (see 15:4\endash 6; Heb. 11:11; cf. Jer. 32:17; Mark 10:27; Luke 1:37).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 15. lied.}{\f0\fs24  The Bible does not gloss over the sins of its hero and heroine of faith (cf. 12:13).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 you did laugh.}{\f0\fs24  This is both a restorative rebuke (Prov. 28:13) and an assuring sign: the one who reads her thoughts can open her womb.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge18.9-15&off=1053"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 267\endash 268). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1 Incident Two: Abraham Pleads for Sodom (18:16\endash 33)}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qc\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i1 Journey Note Overlooking Sodom (Janus Verse for Incidents One and Two) (18:16)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 16. they looked down toward Sodom.}{\f0\fs24  The strangers effect beginnings and endings as the messengers of hope and life to Abraham and Sarah and of judgment and death to the people of Sodom and Gomorrah (Deut. 32:39; 1 Sam. 2:6; Ps. 76:7; Isa. 45:7).}
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i1 Divine Reflections on Abraham and Sodom (18:17\endash 21)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 17. the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1  said}{\f0\fs24  [or \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93thought\u8221\'94]. The narrator records God\u8217\'92s internal dialogue for the reader, in order to explain the true nature of the discussion that follows. This dialogue between the Lord and Abraham is for Abraham\u8217\'92s benefit, to challenge him to act wisely and nobly for justice. The narrator is a prophet in his own right (see \u8220\'93Moses and Ur-Genesis\u8221\'94 in the introduction).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Shall I hide.}{\f0\fs24  God so esteems his servants, the prophets, that he \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93does nothing without revealing his plan\u8221\'94 to them (see Gen. 20:7; Jer. 23:16\endash 22; Amos 3:7; John 15:15).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 18. a great and powerful nation.}{\f0\fs24  See 12:2\endash 3. Such a nation has to learn justice beginning with its father, Abraham (18:17\endash 19). The Lord models justice to Abraham in his treatment of the Sodomites (18:20\endash 33) and through this remarkable dialogue he educes Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s integrity.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 19. I have chosen him.}{\f0\fs24  The text literally reads, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I have known him\u8221\'94 (i.e., \u8220\'93I have an intimate relationship with him\u8221\'94; see 4:1).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 direct.}{\f0\fs24  The same term, which means \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93to command, to charge,\u8221\'94 is used in connection with the law of Moses. Pedagogy in ancient Israel was strict and urgent.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 his children and his household.}{\f0\fs24  Israel\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s inspired spiritual and ethical heritage was passed down through generations within the home (see, e.g., Deut. 6:6; Prov. 1:8). That heritage originated in the revealed will of God through gifted individuals such as Moses and Solomon, who in turn handed their law and wisdom to the parents to teach the next generation. There is no record of a school in Israel before the late intertestamental period; families were the source of all education, including trades.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 the way of the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1 .}{\f0\fs24  The phrase is a technical metaphor for right behavior that leads to a right destiny due to one\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s relationship with the Lord. Eugene H. Merrill explains, \u8220\'93The way (}{\f0\fs24\i1 derek}{\f0\fs24 ) is \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85 the whole course of life lived in conformity to covenant obligation.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 right and just}{\f0\fs24  [}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7779\'3F}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 d\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u257\'61q\u226\'E2 \u251\'FBmi\u353\'9Ap\u257\'61\u7789\'3F}{\f0\fs24 ]. Righteousness portrays a way of living in community that promotes the life of all its members, a life promoting social order in recognition of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s rule (see 6:9). A righteous person rightly orders community, and a just one restores broken community, especially by punishing the oppressor and delivering the oppressed.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 so that.}{\f0\fs24  The conditional aspect of the Abrahamic covenant is explicit here (see 17:2; 22:15\endash 18; 26:4\endash 5).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 20. outcry}{\f0\fs24  [}{\f0\fs24\i1 z}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u703\'3F\u257\'61q\u226\'E2}{\f0\fs24 ]. In 18:21 and 19:13 the term }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7779\'3F}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u703\'3F\u257\'61q\u226\'E2}{\f0\fs24  is used; here its synonym occurs. As the Judge of the earth, the Lord receives all cries of wrongdoing (see 18:25; 4:10). The Hebrew word play with the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93right\u8221\'94 (}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7779\'3F}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 d\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u257\'61q\u226\'E2}{\f0\fs24 ) actions of Abraham highlights the moral failure of Sodom.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 their sin.}{\f0\fs24  The narrator spoke earlier of Sodom\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s wickedness (13:13; see also ch. 19, esp. vv. 4\endash 5 and note; Ezek. 16:49\endash 50).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 21. go down and see.}{\f0\fs24  This is the narrator\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s figurative way of saying that God always thoroughly investigates the crime before passing sentence (see 3:11\endash 13; 4:9\endash 12; 11:5).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge18.16-33&off=2918"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 268\endash 269). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i1 Abraham Intercedes for Sodom (18:22\endash 33)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 22. The men.}{\f0\fs24  This is presumably the two angels/messengers (18:1; 19:1). Appropriately, two go to confirm the crime, as later in Mosaic law two witnesses are needed for capital punishment.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Abraham remained standing before the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1 .}{\f0\fs24  Although the scribes attempted to keep the text \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93correct\u8221\'94 (}{\f0\fs24\i1 b. Ned}{\f0\fs24 . 37b\endash 38a), they sometimes changed it.}{\f0\fs24\super 148}{\f0\fs24  According to their own notes, the original text read, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  remained standing before Abraham.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 This expression of God\u8217\'92s condescension was so great it seemed blasphemous to the scribes. If their note on the original is the correct reading, it suggests that the Lord is challenging Abraham to play the role of a righteous judge.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 23. Abraham approached him.}{\f0\fs24  Abraham the great host is also Abraham the compassionate prophet who intercedes and upholds justice. He stands as a \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93preserver\u8221\'94 in the line of Enoch and Noah. Fox argues, \u8220\'93Without this story Abraham would be a man of faith but not a man of compassion and moral outrage, a model consistent with Moses and the Prophets of Israel.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 Will you sweep away the righteous with the wicked?}{\f0\fs24  Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s arguments for sparing Sodom are founded on a concern for justice, not merely the presence of his nephew Lot in the city. Roop states, \u8220\'93Acting as the one chosen to promote life, Abraham \u8230\'85 [proposes] that the future of everyone be determined not by the wicked ones in the midst of the community, but by the righteous ones.\u8221\'94 God agrees. God spares the righteous when he judges a nation, as in the cases of Rahab (Josh. 2), Assyria (Jonah 3\endash 4), and Israel (see Ezek. 14:12\endash 20). The situation differs considerably, however, in cases of natural disaster that are not judicial judgments (see Job 9:22; 12:4, 16; Luke 13:4).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 24. fifty.}{\f0\fs24  This is about half of a small city (Amos 5:3).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 25\endash 32. Far be it from you!\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85 I am nothing but dust and ashes.\u8230\'85}{\f0\fs24  This is an expression of profound deference and humility. Abraham evidences his leadership qualities in his boldness, moral wisdom, and skillful speeches to God.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 25. kill.}{\f0\fs24  The language carries overtones of a judicial sentence (Lev. 20:4; Num. 35:19, 21).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 Will not the Judge of all the earth do right?}{\f0\fs24  The Hebrew literally means \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93to do justice\u8221\'94 (i.e., to restore a community\u8217\'92s right order under God\u8217\'92s rule by punishing those who destroy it with oppression of the weak and by delivering the oppressed). The question could be read as a challenge to God, but sound theology demands it be read as a deliberative prayer asserting faith in God\u8217\'92s just character and as a \u8220\'93conduit for the divine fulfillment.\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\super 153}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 26. If I find fifty righteous people in the city of Sodom.}{\f0\fs24  Like the people of Noah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s age, the Sodomites had opportunity to repent and change their wicked ways. As with everyone, their time of grace to repent comes to an end.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 I will spare.}{\f0\fs24  The Hebrew literally means \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93lift up.\u8221\'94 It is unclear whether this means to \u8220\'93lift up [face],\u8221\'94 meaning to show grace, or to \u8220\'93lift up [sin],\u8221\'94 meaning to forgive.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 32. ten.}{\f0\fs24  Ten is still a community; fewer than ten can be saved individually, as happens in Genesis 19.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 33. he left.}{\f0\fs24  It is now established that the judgment on Sodom and Gomorrah, the paradigm for God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s future judgments, is just. The Lord investigates the accusations thoroughly (18:22), ensures two objective witnesses, involves the faithful in his judgment, displays active compassion for the suffering, and prioritizes divine mercy over indignant wrath (i.e., not to be destroyed if even ten are righteous). The Lord himself will not appear again in this act; in the next scene he will rain down the judgment from heaven (see 19:24).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Waltke, B. K., & Fredricks, C. J. (2001). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/genesiswaltke?ref=Bible.Ge18.22-33&off=2556"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis: a commentary\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 269\endash 271). Grand Rapids, MI: Zondervan.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}