{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;\red240\green240\blue240;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\i1 Abraham Was Visited by God Himself (Part 1): Growing Faith\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 How to Be a Friend of God}{\f0\fs24 , 18:1\endash 15.}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1.\tab The }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  appeared and sought Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s friendship (v. 1).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2.\tab Abraham sat, bowed his head, and meditated (vv. 1\endash 2).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 3.\tab Abraham served and met the needs of people (vv. 2\endash 8).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 4.\tab Abraham was to believe the great promise of God: the promised seed (vv. 9\endash 10).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 5.\tab Abraham and Sarah had to conquer unbelief (vv. 11\endash 15).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge18.1-15&off=4995&ctx=ssage+is+all+about:+~Abraham+Was+Visited+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 89). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. Abraham is called \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the friend of God\u8221\'94 three times, two times in the Old Testament and one time in the New Testament.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, said this in one of his prayers to God:}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Art not thou our God, who didst drive out the inhabitants of this land before thy people Israel, and gavest it to the seed of Abraham thy friend for ever?\u8221\'94 (2 Chr. 20:7)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab God Himself said this to Israel:}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93But thou, Israel, art my servant, Jacob whom I have chosen, the seed of Abraham my friend\u8221\'94 (Is. 41:8)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab James the writer of the New Testament book said this:}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And the scripture was fulfilled which saith, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness: and he was called the Friend of God\u8221\'94 (Js. 2:23)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 b. Jesus Christ Himself deliberately said that His followers were }{\f0\fs24\i1 His friends}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you. Henceforth I call you not servants; for the servant knoweth not what his }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1  doeth: but I have called you friends; for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Jn. 15:14\endash 15)}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge18.1&off=262&ctx=ship+of+man+to+God.%0a~a.+Abraham+is+called"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 89). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 2}{\f0\fs24  (18:1\endash 2) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Meditation\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Prayer}{\f0\fs24 : How can we become a friend of God? Meditate and pray\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge18.1-2&off=2827&ctx=ith+me%E2%80%9D+(Re.+3:20).%0a~2+(18:1%E2%80%932)+Meditatio"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 89). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . The point is this: meditation and prayer are the way to draw closer to God, the way to become a close, intimate friend with God.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (1)\tab Meditation draws us closer to God.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93But know that the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1  hath set apart him that is godly for himself: the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1  will hear when I call unto him. Stand in awe, and sin not: commune with your own heart upon your bed, and be still. Selah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Ps. 4:3\endash 4)}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge18.1-2&off=3927&ctx=een+doing+the+same.%0a~Thought+1.+The+point"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 90). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 3}{\f0\fs24  (18:2\endash 8) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Service\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ministry}{\f0\fs24  How can we become a friend of God? Serve and meet the needs of people. Abraham is a strong example in serving others, and remember he was one of the most powerful sheiks in Canaan, if not the most powerful (Ge. 14:1\endash 24).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. Abraham, sitting there in the doorway of his tent, looked up; and immediately he saw three men standing nearby (v. 2). Who were the three men? The }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  and two angels. Several verses tell us this (v. 1, 10, 13, 14). When did Abraham know that it was the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 ? We cannot tell from the story, but he certainly knew by verse ten when the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  reconfirmed the promise of the promised seed or son. It is, of course, possible\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 perhaps probable\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 that the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  revealed Himself from the first. We certainly do not have the whole conversation here, and it would seem reasonable to expect the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  to reveal His identity.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 b. Abraham ran to meet the men (v. 2). He did not have to do this: he could have ignored them, just let them pass by, or sent one of his servants out to them. After all, he was resting and praying and thinking through the enormous life-changing plans God had thrust upon him. But Abraham cared about people: he knew the travelers were walking out in the noon day heat and had most likely been traveling all morning. He knew they would be tired, thirsty, hungry, and dirty. He could not fail to offer them help and refreshment.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 c. Abraham bowed, was humble and courteous (v. 2). Again, remember his status was that of a powerful sheik, yet he went out to them himself, demonstrating a most courteous, humble posture: he bowed to the ground. Bowing to the ground may indicate that Abraham knew that it was the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  and angels from the first.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 d. Abraham sought to help and spend time with the three men (vv. 3\endash 5). He showed the most gracious hospitality, inviting them to come to his home so that he could minister to their needs. He offered them water to drink and to wash their dusty feet. He also offered them food and the opportunity to rest. Note that they accepted the invitation.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 e. Abraham involved his wife in serving (v. 6). He did not act alone. Serving others is both a privilege and a duty. He wanted the person most dear to him by his side, serving right along with him as he ministered. He wanted Sarah to fulfill her duty as the wife and to experience the joy of the occasion herself.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 f. Abraham gave the best he had (v. 7). He ran to his herd, selected, and prepared a young calf to serve\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 a choice, tender calf.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 g. Abraham served the men himself: he became personally involved (v. 8). He could have sat down with them and had Sarah or servants serve them all together. But Abraham took the posture of a servant and served the three men himself. He became personally involved in the service and ministry: he sought to personally meet their needs.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 h. Abraham demonstrated humility: he stood off to the side just as a servant would. He did not sit down with them. (This would indicate that Abraham knew that he was serving the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  Himself. Being a powerful sheik, he most likely would have sat and had conversation with other men.)}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Abraham is a dynamic example in serving others. He was a humble, ministry-minded person. Remember how he offered Lot the first choice of land (Ge. 13:8\endash 9); how he rescued the people of Canaan, including Lot, from the invading army; how he accepted Hagar back after she had run away with their son, Ishmael (Ge. 16:1\endash 16).}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Abraham was always serving and helping others. And he was, no doubt, very busy managing his large holdings. Again, he is a strong example for us in serving others. We should always be looking to help people in need. When we spot people in need, we should run to meet them, be courteous, and seek to help meet their needs. We should follow the very steps that Abraham took in meeting the needs of these three men.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge18.2-8&off=0&ctx=heart%E2%80%9D+(Je.+29:13).%0a~3+(18:2%E2%80%938)+Service%E2%80%94M"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 90). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24


\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clcbpat5\cellx4000

\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps\cb5\highlight5 Deeper Study}{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5  # 1}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 (18:2) }{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 Theophany}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 : before Christ came, God spoke to men \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93in many ways\u8221\'94 (He. 1:1). As an example, He sometimes appeared:}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx720\li720\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab in human form (Ge. 3:8; 5:24; 6:9; 18:1\endash 33).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx720\li720\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab in some form of majestic glory (Ezk 1:1\endash 28, esp. 26\endash 28; Is. 6:1\endash 13; see note\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 16:7; see Ex. 3:2; Jos. 5:13\endash 15; Jud. 2:1\endash 5).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\fi360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 Such appearances are called theophanies. In simple terms, a theophany is a visible appearance of God to man, usually in a human form.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge18.2-8&off=5986&ctx=e%E2%80%9D+(1+Ti.+6:17%E2%80%9318).%0a~Deeper+Study+%23+1%0a(18"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 91). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24\cell{
\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clcbpat5\cellx4000
\row}\pard
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 5}{\f0\fs24  (18:11\endash 15) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Unbelief\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Lying\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 God, Power; Knowledge of}{\f0\fs24 : How can we become a friend of God? Conquer unbelief. Note three significant things.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. The causes of unbelief are clearly seen in this experience of Sarah.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1)\tab Sarah and Abraham were looking at an impossible situation, humanly speaking. They were both beyond childbearing years. Abraham was one hundred years old and Sarah was ninety years old.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2)\tab Sarah allowed negative thoughts to enter her mind. As stated above, she had heard the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise to Abraham, but she knew the impossible circumstances. The whole situation just seemed laughable to Sarah, and she actually laughed to herself, somewhat mockingly and skeptically. She murmured silently to herself, \u8220\'93How can I who am so old have the pleasure of sex and bear a child, and Abraham also being so old\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 impossible! A laugh!\u8221\'94 Sarah was responding to God\u8217\'92s promise in unbelief: she just did not believe God\u8217\'92s promise, did not believe it was possible. It was physically impossible to her. Note that she was thinking of the circumstances, not thinking of God and His promise and power.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 b. The answer to unbelief is twofold (vv. 13\endash 14).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1)\tab }{\f0\fs24\i1 God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s omniscience}{\f0\fs24 , His knowing all things. God asked Abraham why Sarah had laughed, revealing that He knew all about Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s unbelief.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2)\tab }{\f0\fs24\i1 God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s omnipotence}{\f0\fs24 , His power to do all things (v. 14). \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Is anything too hard for the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (v. 14). God can do anything, no matter how impossible it seems. He clearly said that He would give Sarah a child despite her dead womb (see Ro. 4:19).}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I know that thou canst do every thing, and that no thought can be withholden from thee\u8221\'94 (Jb. 42:2)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93But Jesus beheld [them], and said unto them, With men this is impossible; but with God all things are possible\u8221\'94 (Mt. 19:26)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93For with God nothing shall be impossible\u8221\'94 (Lu. 1:37)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 c. The conquest of unbelief (v. 15). Sarah lied: she denied that she had laughed, for she feared a severe rebuke from the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  and perhaps from Abraham. But the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  made it clear: she did laugh\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 laughed in unbelief\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 and He knew all about her failure to believe the promise of the promised seed. Moreover, she was now lying about the matter.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 What the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  was doing was telling Sarah that she needed to confess, repent, stop the deceit and lying, and believe the promise. God could perform the miracle, overcome the circumstances of life, no matter how impossible they might appear. God could fulfill His promise. Sarah could conquer unbelief only if she confessed, repented, and believed the promise of the promised seed.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Unbelief will always keep us from being a friend of God. The friend of God believes God; he never disbelieves. We must, therefore, conquer unbelief:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab We must not look at circumstances as though they are impossible for God.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab We must not allow negative thoughts to surround the promises of God, questioning His promises.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab We must believe that God knows all and can do all.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab We must confess and repent of our sin of unbelief, of distrusting the promises of God.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge18.11-15&off=0&ctx=r+more+discussion.)%0a~5+(18:11%E2%80%9315)+Unbelie"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 91\endash 92). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (18:16\endash 33) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Introduction\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Prayer\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Intercession}{\f0\fs24 : God wanted Abraham to do something special, very special. God wanted Abraham to become an }{\f0\fs24\i1 intercessor}{\f0\fs24 , that is, a believer who struggles and wrestles in prayer for others, and who does it often. The words }{\f0\fs24\i1 struggle, wrestle}{\f0\fs24 , and }{\f0\fs24\i1 often}{\f0\fs24  are the key words. God wants believers who will pray often\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 constantly-believers who will struggle and wrestle in prayer for people and for the needs of the world.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness; but is longsuffering to us-ward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance\u8221\'94 (2 Pe. 3:9)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 How do we become }{\f0\fs24\i1 intercessors}{\f0\fs24 ? Get alone and focus our thoughts and prayers upon people in need, upon both the unbelievers and believers of the world. When prayer is approached with strong concentration of thought, when the world is completely shut out, prayer often becomes intense. One just becomes deeply conscious of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s presence and deeply conscious of the needs of others and of the world. The believer begins to struggle for others, for the needs of the world. He draws near God and near those for whom he is praying. He senses that both God and others are ever so near. He loves God and loves those for whom he is praying\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 loves them ever so intensely. He wrestles with God for them, not because God is hard to reach and unconcerned and must be struggled against, but because he feels so much concern and so much love that he just pours out his heart to God. In the process, the prayer warrior is drawing much closer to God and gaining a much deeper concern for man! He is learning to love God more and to love man more, and this is exactly what God wants. God wants believers to be near Him and near others; to love God and others\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 to live both for God and for others; to be both God-centered and man-centered.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Just think of the impact upon this world\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the enormous impact for good\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 if enough believers would become intercessors!}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Note one other fact as well. God knew exactly what was going to happen to Sodom before this event with Abraham took place. He knew that Lot was the only righteous person in the city. What then was God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s purpose in leading Abraham to intercede in prayer time and time again? God\u8217\'92s purpose was at least threefold:}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 First, to teach Abraham\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 and all others who followed him\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 to become intercessors, prayer warriors, for both the righteous and wicked of the earth.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Second, to teach Abraham\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 and all others who followed him\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 that God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s justice must be executed. Every human being will face the judgment of God.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Third, to teach Abraham\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 and all others who followed him\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 to become stronger witnesses for Him. Abraham had been a strong witness to Lot and, no doubt, to his family. Abraham had taken Lot in as a child when Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s father had died, treated him as a son, given him first choice of the land, and saved him from an invading army, risking his own life. But, Abraham was bound to think, after this experience of judgment upon Sodom, if he had been a stronger witness to Lot\u8217\'92s family, perhaps some would have been saved.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Now, the subject of this great passage is: }{\f0\fs24\i1 Abraham Was Visited by God Himself (Part 2): Intercessory Faith\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the Steps to Becoming an Intercessor, a Prayer Warrior}{\f0\fs24 , 18:16\endash 33.}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1.\tab Step 1: yearning to walk with God step by step, longing for His presence (v. 16).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2.\tab Step 2: thinking of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s great call and purpose for one\u8217\'92s life (vv. 17\endash 19).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 3.\tab Step 3: sensing the pain of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s heart over wickedness (vv. 20\endash 21).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 4.\tab Step 4: standing boldly before the Lord in prayer\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 refusing to leave the Lord\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s presence (vv. 22\endash 26).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 5.\tab Step 5: laying hold of the open access (door) into God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s presence (vv. 27\endash 28).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 6.\tab Step 6: continuing to pray and beseech God, praying on and on and never giving up (v. 29).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 7.\tab Step 7: persevering in concern and prayer (vv. 30\endash 33).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge18.16-33&off=4621&ctx=r+Warrior%2c+18:16%E2%80%9333%0a~(18:16%E2%80%9333)+Introduct"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 93\endash 94). Chattanooga, T\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn=N: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Intercession}{\f0\fs24 : How does a person become an intercessor, a prayer warrior? By yearning to walk with God step by step, longing for His presence. Remember, the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  and two angels had appeared to Abraham at the door of his tent, and they had spent a good deal of time with him. Now the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  and the two angels arose, looked down toward Sodom, and began to walk toward the city. Note, Abraham joined them. He did not have to follow them; he could have stayed behind at his tent. But this he did not do. Abraham joined the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  as He walked away to begin the journey toward Sodom. Why? Because Abraham just did not want to leave the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s presence. He had tasted (experienced) the closest bond of friendship imaginable with the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab a strong sense of friendship and fellowship with God (Ge. 18:1\endash 8)}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab a strong assurance of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promises (Ge. 18:10\endash 14)}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab a deep awareness of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s unlimited power (Ge. 18:10)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The deep sense of friendship, fellowship, and assurance of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s power all swelled up within Abraham\u8217\'92s heart, and he just did not want the experience to end. He wanted to spend as much time as he could in God\u8217\'92s presence so he walked along with the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  step by step.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . A true intercessor wants to walk along with the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  step by step and longs for God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s presence. He yearns to develop the closest, most intimate friendship possible with the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 . Therefore, he seeks and makes opportunity \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab to turn his thoughts to the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  throughout the day.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab to captivate every thought, focusing upon things that are true, honest, just, pure, lovely, and of a good report (Ph. 4:8).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab to set aside blocks of time for concentrated, uninterrupted prayer\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 every day.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Simply stated, the intercessor wants and longs for God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s presence, to walk along with God step by step, all day and all night long.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge18.16&off=10&ctx=.+30%E2%80%9333).%0a1+(18:16)+~Intercession:+How+do"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 94). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Believer, Duty}{\f0\fs24 : How does a person become an intercessor, a prayer warrior? By thinking of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s great call and purpose for one\u8217\'92s life. Note what the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  did: He spoke softly to Himself, yet loud enough so that Abraham could hear (see v. 23). Why? There are three reasons.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. Abraham needed to think of his God-given call and purpose (v. 18). He was to father a great and powerful nation; moreover, all the nations of the earth were to be blessed through him, through the promised seed, the Savior of the world, who was to be a descendant of his. Note what God was arousing within Abraham: a sense of responsibility for the world. God was about to execute His justice upon Sodom and Gomorrah\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 destroy it\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 because of their terrible wickedness. God wanted Abraham to sense a responsibility for both the righteous and the wicked; God wanted Abraham stirred to intercede\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 to struggle and wrestle in prayer\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 for the cities of the earth. Abraham had a }{\f0\fs24\i1 responsibility}{\f0\fs24 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 a part\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 in the lives of his fellow men, both the righteous and the wicked. He must, therefore, be aroused to pray for them, even to the point of struggling in prayer.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 b. Abraham needed to think of his duty to teach the ways of the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 , to teach what is right and just (v. 19). Abraham was soon to witness the justice of God falling upon Sodom and Gomorrah. God wanted Abraham to understand God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s ways, that He always does what is right and just, and God wanted Abraham to teach the ways of God. Thus God reminded Abraham of his teaching duties, reminded him right before the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 c. Abraham needed to think of faithfulness and of the reward for being faithful. God made great promises to Abraham, and He was going to bring about these promises. But Abraham needed to remember: he was to be faithful; he was to teach the ways of the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 . Then and only then would the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  reward him; then and only then would Abraham receive the promises.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Focusing upon the same three subjects will stir us to become intercessors for God:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (1)\tab Thinking about God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s great call and purpose. God has called us to know the promised seed, the Savior, and to make Him known. We have a }{\f0\fs24\i1 responsibility}{\f0\fs24 , a part, in the lives of our fellow men, both the righteous and the wicked. We must, therefore, be aroused to pray for them, even to the point of struggling in prayer.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (2)\tab Thinking about our duty to teach the ways of the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 . We need to pray and pray much\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 intercede for ourselves and for others\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 if we are going to teach the ways of God.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (3)\tab Thinking about our great need to be faithful and the great reward promised us if we are faithful. We can never walk faithfully without God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s help; thus we need to be constantly praying, even interceding, for God\u8217\'92s help.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge18.17-19&off=13&ctx=10:5).%0a2+(18:17%E2%80%9319)+~Believer%2c+Duty:+How+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 95). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab God wanted to teach all believers of succeeding generations to follow Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s example in crying out\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 in becoming intercessors\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 for the souls of people.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab God wanted to teach all people that God is longsuffering and full of mercy, not willing that any person perish, but His mercy is open only to those who believe in Him and receive His mercy. Remember that God had given Sodom and Gomorrah every chance in the world to repent and turn to Him. They had a chance to repent when Abraham freed them from captivity to the invading army from the east (Ge. 14:1\endash 16; 14:17\endash 24); when Melchizedek, the priest of God, bore testimony to them (Ge. 14:18\endash 20); and through the testimony of Lot, weak as his witness was (2 Pe. 2:6\endash 9).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab God wanted to teach all people that sin leads to judgment, and judgment will be executed. God is going to judge the world.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge18.20-21&off=1173&ctx=+cities.+Moreover+%E2%80%A6%0a~%E2%80%A2+God+wanted+to+teac"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 95\endash 96). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . How can we become an intercessor, a prayer warrior? By standing boldly before the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  in prayer and by appealing to His justice. God will always do what is right and just. God will never judge a person beyond that which he deserves. Every person will receive exactly what he deserves, nothing more and nothing less. God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s justice will be executed upon every person, but it will be perfect justice. God will do what is right and just, perfectly so.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need\u8221\'94 (He. 4:16)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93In whom we have boldness and access with confidence by the faith of him [Christ]\u8221\'94 (Ep. 3:12)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus\u8221\'94 (He. 10:19)}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge18.22-26&off=2196&ctx=ght+appeal+to+make.%0a~Thought+1.+How+can+w"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 96). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 5}{\f0\fs24  (18:27\endash 28) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Access\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Prayer\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Intercession}{\f0\fs24 : How does a person become an intercessor, a prayer warrior? By laying hold of the open access\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the open door\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 into God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s presence. No doubt, all the wickedness within the cities began to engross Abraham\u8217\'92s mind, and he began to wonder if there were anywhere close to fifty righteous people within the city. Apparently, he felt that if he asked only for Lot and his dear family, he would be acting selfishly. And Abraham was not selfish, nor was he concerned only for Lot and his family. What could he do? How could he pray so that God would both save the city and understand that he was not selfish? There was only one way: keep praying and asking God for more and more until He said \u8220\'93No.\u8221\'94 But ask God in all humility. Note how Abraham approached the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  this second time: confessing that he was but dust and ashes. And note the word }{\f0\fs24\i1 Lord}{\f0\fs24  (Adonai). This is not the personal name for }{\f0\fs24\i1 Lord}{\f0\fs24 , but rather the more formal title for God. Abraham was appealing to the }{\f0\fs24\i1 Lord}{\f0\fs24  who is the Sovereign Ruler and Judge of all the earth.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Abraham asked God to spare the city if forty-five righteous were found, and God answered his prayer.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . How can we become intercessors, prayer warriors? By approaching God in humility, as dust and ashes, and laying hold of God, laying hold of the open access and door into His presence.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge18.27-28&off=0&ctx=Jesus%E2%80%9D+(He.+10:19).%0a~5+(18:27%E2%80%9328)+Access%E2%80%94"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 96\endash 97). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 6}{\f0\fs24  (18:29) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Prayer\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Intercession}{\f0\fs24 : How does a person become an intercessor, a prayer warrior? By continuing in prayer, praying on and on and not giving up, but beseeching God. The verse and point is self-explanatory: Abraham asked God to spare the city if forty righteous people were found, and God answered his prayer.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . The true intercessor refuses to give up. He continues to pray on and on. This is exactly what Scripture tells us to do.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Seek the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1  and his strength, seek his face continually\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (1 Chr. 16:11)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you\u8221\'94 (Mt. 7:7)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Watch [be sleepless] and pray, that ye enter not into temptation: the spirit indeed [is] willing, but the flesh [is] weak\u8221\'94 (Mt. 26:41)}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge18.29&off=0&ctx=+hear%E2%80%9D+(Is.+65:24).%0a~6+(18:29)+Prayer%E2%80%94Int"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 97). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Scripture assures us: if we persevere in prayer, God will hear and answer.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And he spake a parable unto them to this end, that men ought always to pray, and not to faint\u8221\'94 (Lu. 18:1)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto [being sleepless, giving up sleep] with all perseverance and supplication for all saints\u8221\'94 (Ep. 6:18)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Pray without ceasing\u8221\'94 (1 Th. 5:17)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Is any among you afflicted? let him pray. Is any merry? let him sing psalms. Is any sick among you? let him call for the elders of the church; and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord\u8221\'94 (Js. 5:13\endash 14)}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge18.30-33&off=1543&ctx=answered+each+time.%0a~Thought+1.+Scripture"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 97). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24}