{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}{\f5\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sa160\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs48\b1 Bargaining with God}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs28\i1 Genesis 18:16\endash 33; [19:1\endash 38]}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs32 Setting the Stage}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 Theme.}{\f0\fs24  We\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92ve all probably questioned God at some point. When we witness human suffering, we may wonder why He allows such experiences to persist. When disasters inflict tragedy and destruction, we may question why He chooses not to intervene. We wonder what, if anything, devastating situations can teach us about God\u8217\'92s righteousness. We may even go so far as to question whether God is truly just.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 This is exactly what Abraham did in Gen 18. After hearing that God was planning to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah, he questioned God directly and tried to negotiate pardon for Sodom: Would God still destroy the city if He found 50 righteous people there? What about 45? Would He pardon it for as few as 10? Throughout his bargaining, Abraham wasn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t disrespectful. Rather, his questions showed his concern for upholding God\u8217\'92s reputation for righteousness and justice. In all his negotiating, Abraham\u8217\'92s chief concern was to know, \u8220\'93Will not the Judge of all the earth do right?\u8221\'94 (Gen 18:25 }{\f0\fs24\scaps niv}{\f0\fs24 ). And as a result of Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s actions, God showed him a little more of His character: He is indeed just and merciful, but maybe not in the ways we expect.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Grigoni, M. R., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/csabraham?ref=Bible.Ge18.16-33&off=10&ctx=CHAPTER+6%0a~Bargaining+with+God%0aGenesis+18"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Abraham: Following God\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Ge 18:16\endash 33). Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 Literary Context:}{\f0\fs24  Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s bargaining with God in Gen 18:16\endash 33 fits into the larger section of Gen 18\endash 19, which begins with three men visiting Abraham and ends with Lot narrowly escaping from the destruction of Sodom. In some ways, though, the story actually began earlier in Abraham\u8217\'92s life, when he and Lot separated (see Gen 13). Lot chose the fertile Jordan Valley, in which Sodom was located, and Abraham took Canaan (Gen 13:5\endash 12). Here, we find the first reference to the wickedness of Sodom (Gen 13:13).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Later, Abraham came to Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s defense after a group of Mesopotamian kings sacked Sodom and made off with spoils and captives, including Lot (Gen 14:11\endash 12). Abraham defeated the Mesopotamian kings, rescued his nephew, and restored Sodom\u8217\'92s possessions (Gen 14:13\endash 16). When the king of Sodom failed to show appreciation for Abraham\u8217\'92s intervention, Abraham disassociated himself from the ruler (Gen 14:21\endash 24; see Chapter 3). In establishing the wickedness of Sodom, the narrative sets the stage for its later destruction.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Grigoni, M. R., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/csabraham?ref=Bible.Ge18.16-33&off=1218&ctx=the+ways+we+expect.%0a~Literary+Context:+Ab"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Abraham: Following God\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Ge 18:16\endash 33). Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 Historical & Cultural Background:}{\f0\fs24  We don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t know the precise locations of Sodom and Gomorrah, though they were most likely situated somewhere around the Dead Sea (\u8220\'93the sea of the salt\u8221\'94; Gen 14:3). The traditional view is that Sodom and the related \u8220\'93cities of the Plain\u8221\'94 (Gen 13:12) were on the south end of the Dead Sea. Since Lot escaped to a city called Zoar (Gen 19:22), and there was a city at the southern point of the Dead Sea bearing that name, this location is possible. However, when Lot and Abraham first separated, the text says Lot chose \u8220\'93the plain of the Jordan\u8221\'94 (Gen 13:11), which typically refers to the lush Jordan Valley\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 an area northeast of the Dead Sea. The place name \u8220\'93the Plain\u8221\'94 is also used here in the destruction of Sodom episode (Gen 19:17, 25, 28\endash 29) and has been associated with Sodom since Gen 13:12.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Grigoni, M. R., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/csabraham?ref=Bible.Ge18.16-33&off=2246&ctx=+later+destruction.%0a~Historical+%26+Cultura"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Abraham: Following God\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Ge 18:16\endash 33). Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Recent archaeological excavations also support the northern location. Within this \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Plain\u8221\'94 area, archaeologists have uncovered several small \u8220\'93tells\u8221\'94 or mounds containing the ruins of ancient cities. Nearby is a much larger tell thought to be the most prominent of all the cities of the Plain\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Sodom\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 now known as Tell el-Hammam.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Archaeologists digging at Tell el-Hammam have uncovered a layer of ash nearly six-and-a-half feet deep in certain places. Within this ash layer, they\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92ve found various artifacts believed to be from the time of Abraham. They\u8217\'92ve also found the remains of bodies and artifacts that have been smashed and burned, but not in a manner typical of warfare or earthquakes. Archaeologists describe \u8220\'93skeletons covered by architectural debris, limbs twisted out of normal positions, some thrown on their faces with hyperextended joints, and surrounded in the matrix by human bone scatter such as pieces of ribs, the ends of long bones, and skull fragments.\u8221\'94 The remains may tell the story of Gen 19\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 a catastrophe Abraham was trying to prevent.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Ultimately, Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s bargaining on behalf of Sodom was not enough to spare the city. God couldn\u8217\'92t find at least 10 righteous people (Gen 18:32), and He rained fire and brimstone on both Sodom and Gomorrah (Gen 19:24\endash 25). Yet Abraham\u8217\'92s intercession did result in Lot being spared. As Abraham looked down on the ashes of the cities, the story tells us that \u8220\'93God remembered Abraham\u8221\'94 and delivered Lot from the destruction (Gen 19:28\endash 29). For several generations, this layer of ash and its remains reminded people of God\u8217\'92s deliverance for the righteous and His wrath against the wicked.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Grigoni, M. R., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/csabraham?ref=Bible.Ge18.16-33&off=3076&ctx=+since+Gen+13:12.%0a+%0a~Recent+archaeologica"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Abraham: Following God\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Ge 18:16\endash 33). Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs32 A Closer Look}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 This story begins with Abraham accompanying his three visitors as they depart (Gen 18:16). When they reached a place where they could look down on the city of Sodom, God deliberated\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 either to Himself or to the three visitors\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 about whether He should inform Abraham of His plans to destroy the city (Gen 18:17). As He was considering, God repeated to Himself the promise He made to Abraham (Gen 18:18\endash 19).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 While previously God articulated the promise several times, this is the only time He voiced the promise without Abraham as His audience (see Gen 12:1\endash 3, 7; 13:14\endash 17; 15:1\endash 21; 17:1\endash 21). God began by reflecting on an aspect of the promise that had been present from the start: that Abraham would become a great and mighty nation that would bless all the nations of the earth (Gen 18:18; see 12:2\endash 3).}
\par\pard\plain \sa180\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 God then stated, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I have chosen [Abraham]\u8221\'94 (Gen 18:19). With this statement, the theme of divine election\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 implicit in the narrative thus far\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 becomes an explicit aspect of Abraham\u8217\'92s story and experience as well as that of God\u8217\'92s chosen people (see Deut 7:6\endash 8). God\u8217\'92s individual election of Abraham would eventually develop into God\u8217\'92s collective election of Israel. In both Abraham\u8217\'92s life and the life of the Israel, election entails blessing and protection for the chosen (Deut 4:39; Isa 65:9), as well as an expectation of obedience to the One who elects (Deut 4:40; 7:9\endash 11; Amos 3:2).}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24


\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx8640

\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\sa160\qj{\f1\fs20\b1 Quick Bit}{\f0\fs22  The Hebrew word }{\f0\fs22\i1 tsedeq}{\f0\fs22  (often translated \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93righteousness\u8221\'94) is often used to refer to what is right or fair (see Lev 19:36). When translated as \u8220\'93justice,\u8221\'94 it carries a legal sense of innocence (see Deut 16:20). In his speeches, for example, Job claimed that his \u8220\'93vindication,\u8221\'94 or }{\f0\fs22\i1 tsedeq}{\f0\fs22 , was at stake (Job 6:29). Often, }{\f0\fs22\i1 tsedeq}{\f0\fs22  is used to refer to God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s \u8220\'93righteous\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93just\u8221\'94 judgments (Psa 9:7\endash 8; Jer 11:20). It appears with }{\f0\fs22\i1 mishpat}{\f0\fs22 , or \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93judgment,\u8221\'94 in many instances (Psa 33:5; Prov 1:3; Isa 56:1).}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24\cell{
\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx8640
\row}\pard
\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 God continued by discussing }{\f0\fs24\i1 why}{\f0\fs24  He chose Abraham. In His previous reiterations of the promise, He had revealed only the results of its fulfillment: that Abraham would have many descendants, become a great nation, and be a blessing. Here, He added a reason: God chose Abraham \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93to do righteousness and justice\u8221\'94 (Gen 18:19b). Abraham was to instruct his children and his entire household in God\u8217\'92s ways, in righteousness, and in justice. God was about to give Abraham an opportunity to debate these topics, as these very themes would drive Abraham in his intercession for Sodom.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 When God told Abraham that He was considering destroying Sodom and Gomorrah because of their sin, Abraham was troubled. He had risked his life to help these cities when he defeated the Mesopotamian kings in Gen 14 (see Chapter 3). Even so, Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s chief concern centered on God\u8217\'92s righteousness and justice.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s first question to God demonstrates his concern for justice: \u8220\'93Will you also sweep away the righteous with the wicked?\u8221\'94 (Gen 18:23). Abraham was distressed that in destroying Sodom, God might also destroy any righteous people living there. Such an act would violate God\u8217\'92s righteousness and justice since He would be destroying persons undeserving of such punishment.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24


\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx8640

\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\sa160\qj{\f1\fs20\b1 Quick Bit}{\f0\fs22  The Hebrew word }{\f0\fs22\i1 mishpat}{\f0\fs22  means \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93justice\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93judgment.\u8221\'94 It can refer to laws (Psa 119:7) or the carrying out of legal decisions, as in \u8220\'93executing justice\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93bringing someone into judgment\u8221\'94 (Psa 146:7; Eccl 12:14). Proverbs claims that evil men cannot understand }{\f0\fs22\i1 mishpat}{\f0\fs22 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 only those who seek God can (Prov 28:5). God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s }{\f0\fs22\i1 mishpat}{\f0\fs22  includes both condemning the guilty and vindicating the righteous (1 Kgs 8:32).}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24\cell{
\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \cellx8640
\row}\pard
\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Abraham used strong language to voice his disapproval, twice repeating, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Far be it from you \u8230\'85\u8221\'94 (Gen 18:25). This phrase is a strong way of expressing disapproval, equivalent to saying \u8220\'93certainly not.\u8221\'94 David later used this phrase to emphasize that he refused to harm Saul, God\u8217\'92s anointed one (1 Sam 26:11). Abraham\u8217\'92s use of the phrase expresses how unthinkable it seemed to him that God, the just Judge of the earth, would destroy the innocent along with the guilty. He began by asking God to spare the city if there were 50 righteous people in it (Gen 18:24).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 After God agreed to this request (Gen 18:26), Abraham started to bargain for lower numbers. He did so with respect and humility, recognizing his position before God (\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I am dust and ashes\u8221\'94; Gen 18:27) and being careful not to overstep his place (\u8220\'93Please, let not my Lord be angry\u8221\'94; Gen 18:30, 32). Each time he spoke, Abraham asked that God spare the city for the sake of fewer righteous people. With each lower number, Abraham demonstrated greater faith in God\u8217\'92s mercy as he asked God to spare an entire city of wicked people for the sake of only a few righteous.}
\par\pard\plain \sa180\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 We don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t know why the negotiation ended at 10 righteous people (Gen 18:32). It is possible that the number 10 represented totality for the author of the story. Regardless of the reason, Abraham had made his point by the time the bargaining ended. He had appealed to God\u8217\'92s mercy, and God had agreed to spare the entire city for the sake of 10 righteous people.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 It is important to note that Abraham didn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t try to convince God to change His plans. As one scholar says, \u8220\'93Abraham was not trying to talk God into doing something against his will, for he was convinced of the righteousness of God.\u8221\'94 God\u8217\'92s justice would prohibit Him from punishing the innocent, and His mercy would allow Him to save the wicked from punishment. Abraham, who was chosen \u8220\'93to do righteousness and justice\u8221\'94 and to instruct his descendants to do the same (Gen 18:19), showed a clear understanding of these facets of God\u8217\'92s character.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Ultimately, Sodom lacked even 10 righteous people, and God destroyed both Sodom and Gomorrah by raining down fire and brimstone (Gen 19:24\endash 25). Even so, Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s intercession was not futile. God showed His mercy in a way that exceeded Abraham\u8217\'92s negotiation.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 After the cities\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 destruction, Abraham returned to the place where he had negotiated with God and looked down on the ashes where the cities once stood. At this point, the narrative explains that when God destroyed the cities, He \u8220\'93remembered Abraham\u8221\'94 and delivered Lot (Gen 19:29). The term }{\f0\fs24\i1 zakhar}{\f0\fs24 , meaning \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93to remember,\u8221\'94 is often used in the context of God remembering and staying loyal to His covenant (Exod 2:24; Psa 105:8). Here, it speaks to the privileged position Abraham held (\u8220\'93I have chosen him\u8221\'94; Gen 18:19) and indicates that God demonstrated mercy in the midst of judgment.}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f5\fs24\i1 Study Questions}
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1.\tab God chose Abraham \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93to do righteousness and justice\u8221\'94 and to teach his descendants to keep the way of God. In what ways does your life reflect these aspects of God\u8217\'92s character? How can you better demonstrate God\u8217\'92s righteousness and justice to others?}
\par\pard\plain \li360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2.\tab Think of tragedies or injustices you have seen or experienced. Did they cause you to doubt the justice of God? Have you ever experienced a situation, like Abraham, where you questioned God? What have these experiences taught you about His nature?\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Grigoni, M. R., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/csabraham?ref=Bible.Ge18.16-33&off=10339"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Abraham: Following God\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Ge 18:16\endash 33). Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs32 Application}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 We don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t often approach God the way Abraham did in Gen 18:16\endash 33. We tend to be leery of questioning or negotiating with Him. It seems disrespectful or even sacrilegious to question God or voice our discontent. However, the Bible contains many examples of people who did just that\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 and they did so in a respectful manner.}
\par\pard\plain \sa180\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Sometimes we try to bargain with God. We promise certain behaviors or actions if God will grant our requests. This type of bargaining shows a faulty understanding of what God desires. When Abraham negotiated with God, he did not do so based on what he could bring. He did not say, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93God, if you spare Sodom, I\u8217\'92ll offer extra sacrifices.\u8221\'94 Instead, Abraham negotiated based on God\u8217\'92s character, appealing to His justice and righteousness. In doing so, Abraham showed that he understood what is important to God.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Other righteous people in the Bible also focused on God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s character when they approached God. When Moses asked God to refrain from punishing Israel for the golden calf incident, he appealed specifically to God\u8217\'92s reputation and His faithfulness, asking God how it would look to the Egyptians if He destroyed His own people (Exod 32:12). The psalmists wrestled with suffering and pain and presented their complaints to God, yet always with a focus on His character. Even Job\u8217\'92s complaints were based on a view of God\u8217\'92s attributes; Job could not reconcile his understanding of God\u8217\'92s righteousness with the severe suffering he was experiencing.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus encouraged His followers to approach God in prayer. God is not afraid of our questions; He wants to talk with us and hear our struggles. We can tell Him exactly what we are going through and trust that He understands our concerns and weaknesses. Yet Jesus also instructed His followers to put God first\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 to \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness\u8221\'94 (Matt 6:33 }{\f0\fs24\scaps esv}{\f0\fs24 ). God may not respond in the way we expect or want Him to, and we will not always understand how His mercy and grace is working to faithfully complete His work in our lives (1 Cor 13:12; Phil 1:6). However, we can be confident that the Judge of all the earth will do right.}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f5\fs24\i1 Study Questions}
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1.\tab How can a fuller understanding of the character of God enhance your prayer life? Does thinking about who God is change the way you pray? In what ways?}
\par\pard\plain \li360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2.\tab Do you know anyone\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 in your church or in your family\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 who demonstrates these facets of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s character? Have you ever known them to question God? What could you learn from their experience?\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Grigoni, M. R., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/csabraham?ref=Bible.Ge18.16-33&off=20145"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Abraham: Following God\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Ge 18:16\endash 33). Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}