{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f5\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sa160\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs48\b1 Promising the Impossible}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs28\i1 Genesis 17:1\endash 18:15}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs32 Setting the Stage}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 Theme.}{\f0\fs24  While it\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s easy to pay lip service to the idea that God is all powerful, it\u8217\'92s much more difficult to consistently live out our faith in ways that recognize God\u8217\'92s unlimited ability\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 His omnipotence. Like other characteristics attributed to God, omnipotence can be a difficult idea to wrap our heads around. The story of Abram and Sarai shows that even the heroes of faith sometimes found it difficult to acknowledge God\u8217\'92s power in their lives.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 In Genesis 17 and 18, Sarai and Abram struggled to keep their composure when God delivered the seemingly ridiculous news that Sarai\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 a 90-year-old woman who had been barren her whole life\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 would give birth to a son. In response to Sarai\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s laughter of disbelief, God raised the issue of His omnipotence, asking, \u8220\'93Is anything too difficult for Yahweh?\u8221\'94 (Gen 18:14). The story goes on to show that \u8220\'93with God all things are possible\u8221\'94 (Matt 19:22), even when we have trouble believing it. God eventually made Sarai a mother, demonstrating His ability to bring life from a previously lifeless womb\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 and He did so despite the couple\u8217\'92s doubts.}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 Literary Context.}{\f0\fs24  As we\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92ve seen, God repeated His promise to Abram several times throughout his life. Each time, God made the promise more specific. He first promised Abram that he would become a \u8220\'93great nation\u8221\'94 (Gen 12:1\endash 3) and identified the land that He would give to Abram\u8217\'92s offspring (Gen 12:7). Later, He revealed that Abram\u8217\'92s descendants would be as numerous as the dust of the earth (Gen 13:14\endash 17). Even later, He made it known that the heir to the promise would be Abram\u8217\'92s own son (Gen 15:4) and identified the specific location of the promised land (Gen 15:18\endash 21).}
\par\pard\plain \sa180\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 In Genesis 17:1\endash 27, God again reaffirmed His promise to Abram. While most of this promise resembled earlier versions, a few things were new. God stated that kings would be included among Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s descendants (Gen 17:6, 16) and emphasized that a son birthed by Sarai would inherit the covenant (Gen 17:19). Here, God also changed the names of Abram and Sarai to Abraham and Sarah and established circumcision as the sign of the covenant.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 In the chapter that follows, three men visit Abraham on their way to Sodom (Gen 18:1\endash 15). While we are told that \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Yahweh appeared to [Abraham]\u8221\'94 (Gen 18:1), the chapter does not identify the three men or provide details about their interaction with Abraham (they appear in Gen 18:2). Rather, it focuses on Abraham\u8217\'92s hospitality; he invited the men to rest and provided a feast for them (Gen 18:3\endash 8). These men are typically understood as messengers from God or a representation of God Himself (see \u8220\'93Beyond the Bible\u8221\'94).}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 Historical & Cultural Background.}{\f0\fs24  The story of Gen 18 illustrates the significance of hospitality in the ancient Near East. The Babylonian Talmud says, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Greater value attaches to hospitality \u8230\'85 than receiving the presence of God.\u8221\'94 Hosts were responsible for protecting their guests as well as providing water (so visitors could wash their feet) and a meal (see Gen 24:32; 43:24; Judg 19:21). They were also expected to care for their guests\u8217\'92 animals (see Gen 24:31\endash 32; 43:24).}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24


\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \cellx8640

\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\sa160\qj{\f1\fs20\b1 Quick Bit}{\f0\fs22  The Babylonian Talmud is a rabbinic commentary on the Jewish law written between }{\f0\fs22\scaps ad}{\f0\fs22  500 and 600. The Hebrew word }{\f0\fs22\i1 talmud}{\f0\fs22  means \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93instruction, learning.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24\cell{
\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \cellx8640
\row}\pard
\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The social and cultural significance of hospitality is also evident in the Psalms, which sometimes portray God as a host. Psalm 23 describes the provision and protection that comes with being a guest in the house of Yahweh; it tells how God satisfies the psalmist\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s hunger by setting a \u8220\'93table\u8221\'94 before him and provides him with sanctuary by doing so \u8220\'93in the presence of [his] oppressors\u8221\'94 (Psa 23:5\endash 6). Psalm 36:8 likewise describes the refreshment that comes to those who take refuge in God\u8217\'92s house.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The Gospel writers also used the role of host in their portrayal of Jesus and His ministry. Jesus practiced hospitality by providing food for the crowds that had been following Him (Mark 8:1\endash 9). He also served as a host when washing His disciples\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 feet; earlier, He had criticized a Pharisee for not providing Him with this service (John 13:3\endash 5; see Luke 7:44\endash 47). Understanding ancient Near Eastern hospitality helps us better understand not only Abraham\u8217\'92s story, but other biblical passages as well.}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs32 A Closer Look}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Genesis 17 opens by telling us \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Abram was ninety-nine years old\u8221\'94 when Yahweh appeared to him again (Gen 17:1). Thirteen years had passed since the events of Gen 15\endash 16 (see Gen 16:16), yet the narrative doesn\u8217\'92t focus on this fact. Instead, it simply presents God\u8217\'92s reiteration of the promise. This shows that the relationship between the events of Gen 16 and 17 is more important than }{\f0\fs24\i1 when}{\f0\fs24  the events of each chapter occurred. Previously, Sarai had tried to bring about the fulfillment of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise by providing Abram with an heir through Hagar. Here, as we\u8217\'92ll see, God affirmed that Sarai herself would bear a son. This particular arrangement of events emphasizes the themes of promise and faith in Abram and Sarai\u8217\'92s life.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24


\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \cellx8640

\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\sa160\qj{\f1\fs20\b1 Quick Tip}{\f0\fs22  Storytelling relies on strategic and selective emphasis on important events or scenes. Biblical stories are not random collections of events or partial reminiscences about ancient figures\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 they are scenes in a larger narrative, carefully crafted to demonstrate God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faithfulness to His people. The events of Abram\u8217\'92s life presented in Genesis represent important milestones in Abram and Sarai\u8217\'92s journey of faith.}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24\cell{
\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \cellx8640
\row}\pard
\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The chapter begins with God once more interacting directly with Abram, identifying Himself as \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93El-Shaddai\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93God Almighty\u8221\'94 (Gen 17:1). In His previous encounters with Abram, God had required very little from him (see Gen 12, 15). Here, God commanded that Abram \u8220\'93walk before me and be blameless,\u8221\'94 establishing Abram\u8217\'92s obedience as a condition of His blessing and covenant (Gen 17:1\endash 2).}
\par\pard\plain \sa180\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 God also restated the promise and reinstated the covenant\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 a course of action required by the events of Gen 16. The time for fulfillment of the promise was drawing near. God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s reassurance to Abram in Gen 15 had focused on the promise of the land (see Chapter 4, \u8220\'93A Closer Look\u8221\'94). In this reinstatement of the covenant promise, God emphasized that Abram would be the \u8220\'93father of a multitude of nations\u8221\'94 (Gen 17:4\endash 5). God had already attempted to give Abram some sense of how numerous his descendants would be, comparing their number to the dust of the earth (Gen 13:16) and the stars of the sky (Gen 15:5). Here, He emphasized that Abram would father not only a \u8220\'93great nation,\u8221\'94 but a \u8220\'93multitude\u8221\'94 of them (Gen 17:4). To underscore this promise, God renamed him Abraham, connecting his new name to the promise that he would father this multitude (Gen 17:5). No longer would Abraham merely be a revered figure; he would become the ancestor to whom many people groups would trace their beginning.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24


\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \cellx8640

\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\sa160\qj{\f1\fs20\b1 Quick Bit}{\f0\fs22  The name Abram means \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Exalted Father.\u8221\'94 The name Abraham is explained in Gen 17:5 as meaning \u8220\'93father of a multitude of nations.\u8221\'94 This meaning for Abraham is probably based on the wordplay between }{\f0\fs22\i1 av}{\f0\fs22  (\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93father\u8221\'94) and the words }{\f0\fs22\i1 raham}{\f0\fs22  and }{\f0\fs22\i1 hamon}{\f0\fs22 , both of which mean \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93multitude.\u8221\'94 This name served a daily reminder of Abraham\u8217\'92s ultimate destiny.}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24\cell{
\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \cellx8640
\row}\pard
\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 God then introduced circumcision by commanding Abraham, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93you must keep my covenant, you and your offspring after you, throughout their generations\u8221\'94 (Gen 17:9). Previously, the covenant simply established that Canaan would belong to Abraham\u8217\'92s descendants (Gen 15:18\endash 21). Now, the covenant required obedience to God\u8217\'92s command that every male be circumcised. As \u8220\'93a sign of the covenant,\u8221\'94 circumcision functioned as a symbol\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 an external act of obedience that testified to an inward faith in God\u8217\'92s promise (Gen 17:11). The symbolism of circumcision had a lasting impact on biblical writers (see \u8220\'93Throughout the Bible\u8221\'94).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 After providing details on circumcision (Gen 17:11\endash 14), God renamed Sarai, calling her Sarah (both names mean \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93princess\u8221\'94; Gen 17:15). Then, God finally provided Abraham with the essential detail: The promised son would be born through Sarah (Gen 17:16). As if to emphasize the link between His promise to Abraham and His blessing of Sarah, God continued by stating that nations and kings would come through her (Gen 17:16). Stunned by this revelation, Abraham laughed, wondering how an elderly couple could have children (Gen 17:17). He then addressed God, begging Him to bless his son, Ishmael, instead (Gen 17:18). But God\u8217\'92s plan was set: Isaac would be the son of the promise (Gen 17:19, 21).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 After 24 years of waiting on God, Abraham finally received a concrete timeframe: Sarah would have a son within the year (Gen 17:21). With this final assurance in place, Abraham proceeded to circumcise every male in his household, as God commanded (Gen 17:23).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 In the scene that follows, Abraham offered hospitality to three divine messengers (Gen 18:1\endash 15), who repeated the promise that Sarah would have a son within the year (Gen 18:10). This episode focuses on Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s response to this prophecy: Upon overhearing their announcement, she laughed in disbelief. While Sarah\u8217\'92s reaction is understandable, given her age and lifelong inability to conceive, Yahweh chastised Sarah for her doubt (Gen 18:13). Sarah denied her reaction, likely out of surprise over the scolding and for having the visitor know her thoughts (Gen 18:15).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 As the story ends, the sense of immediacy in this selective presentation of events from Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s life becomes apparent (Gen 16\endash 18:15). Abram may have patiently waited on God during the 13 years between Gen 16 and 17. Perhaps he had assumed Ishmael would be his heir and that God had approved of their intervention via Hagar (implied by his reaction in Gen 17:18). Ultimately, however, these stories show that God seems to take delight in performing the impossible.}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\i1 Study Questions}
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1.\tab Reflect on a time when you felt God leading you toward something that you felt was impossible. How did you respond?}
\par\pard\plain \li360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2.\tab Consider the difference between obedience as a sign that you\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92re following God versus the means by which you fulfill your obligation to God. Which option makes your faith seem more secure?\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0  Grigoni, M. R., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/csabraham?ref=Bible.Ge17.1-18.15&off=10&ctx=CHAPTER+5%0a~Promising+the+Impossible%0aGenes"}{\fldrslt\f5\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf4 Abraham: Following God\loch\af5\hich\af5\dbch\af5\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0  (Ge 17:1\endash 18:15). Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs32 Application}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The story of Abraham and Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s life is not simply about the unfolding of God\u8217\'92s promise and faithfulness to the patriarchal couple; it is the story of God revealing Himself to those attempting to follow His promise. It is a story of discovering God\u8217\'92s character.}
\par\pard\plain \sa180\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 When God called Abraham out of Ur, Abraham unquestioningly followed Him (Gen 12:1). Yet decades later, when God announced that Sarah would have a son in her old age, both Abraham and Sarah responded with laughter, unable to suppress their doubt (Gen 17:17; 18:12). Abraham and Sarah didn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t have the full picture of God\u8217\'92s plan, but their laughter also revealed that they did not have a full understanding of the extent of God\u8217\'92s power. They had not yet learned that nothing is too difficult for Yahweh (Gen 18:14).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 When faced with challenges in our journey of faith, it may become difficult to imagine how God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s unlimited ability will pull us through. When we experience loss or pain, we may be unable to place our confidence in God\u8217\'92s goodness. In these cases, we can turn to the Bible to see how God\u8217\'92s power and grace manifested in the lives of those who followed Him. The Bible does not simply describe God\u8217\'92s involvement with humankind\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 it describes who God is. And, like Abraham and Sarah, we can grow in our understanding of God\u8217\'92s character as He reveals Himself to us in the story of our lives.}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\i1 Study Questions}
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1.\tab When have you ever responded in laughter to God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise in your own life? How has God convinced you of His omnipotence?}
\par\pard\plain \li360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2.\tab How does thinking about the Bible as a description of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s character change your view of God\u8217\'92s Word? How does thinking of the Bible as a story that tells us who God is affect the way you view your life story?\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0  Grigoni, M. R., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/csabraham?ref=Bible.Ge17.1-18.15&off=18743"}{\fldrslt\f5\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf4 Abraham: Following God\loch\af5\hich\af5\dbch\af5\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0  (Ge 17:1\endash 18:15). Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}