{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Genesis 18}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 And the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  appeared to him by the oaks of Mamre, as he sat at the door of his tent in the heat of the day. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 2}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 He lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, three men were standing in front of him. When he saw them, he ran from the tent door to meet them and bowed himself to the earth }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 3}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 and said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93O Lord, if I have found favor in your sight, do not pass by your servant. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 4}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 Let a little water be brought, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree, }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 5}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 while I bring a morsel of bread, that you may refresh yourselves, and after that you may pass on\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 since you have come to your servant.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 So they said, \u8220\'93Do as you have said.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 6}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 And Abraham went quickly into the tent to Sarah and said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Quick! Three seahs of fine flour! Knead it, and make cakes.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 7}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 And Abraham ran to the herd and took a calf, tender and good, and gave it to a young man, who prepared it quickly. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 8}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 Then he took curds and milk and the calf that he had prepared, and set it before them. And he stood by them under the tree while they ate. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 9}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 They said to him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Where is Sarah your wife?\u8221\'94 And he said, \u8220\'93She is in the tent.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 10}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 The }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I will surely return to you about this time next year, and Sarah your wife shall have a son.\u8221\'94 And Sarah was listening at the tent door behind him. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 11}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 Now Abraham and Sarah were old, advanced in years. The way of women had ceased to be with Sarah. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 12}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 So Sarah laughed to herself, saying, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93After I am worn out, and my lord is old, shall I have pleasure?\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 13}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 The }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  said to Abraham, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Why did Sarah laugh and say, \u8216\'91Shall I indeed bear a child, now that I am old?\u8217\'92 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 14}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 Is anything too hard for the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 ? At the appointed time I will return to you, about this time next year, and Sarah shall have a son.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 15}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 But Sarah denied it, saying, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I did not laugh,\u8221\'94 for she was afraid. He said, \u8220\'93No, but you did laugh.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 16}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 Then the men set out from there, and they looked down toward Sodom. And Abraham went with them to set them on their way. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 17}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 The }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Shall I hide from Abraham what I am about to do, }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 18}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him? }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 19}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 For I have chosen him, that he may command his children and his household after him to keep the way of the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  by doing righteousness and justice, so that the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  may bring to Abraham what he has promised him.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 20}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 Then the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Because the outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is great and their sin is very grave, }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 21}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 I will go down to see whether they have done altogether according to the outcry that has come to me. And if not, I will know.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 22}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 So the men turned from there and went toward Sodom, but Abraham still stood before the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 . }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 23}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 Then Abraham drew near and said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Will you indeed sweep away the righteous with the wicked? }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 24}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 Suppose there are fifty righteous within the city. Will you then sweep away the place and not spare it for the fifty righteous who are in it? }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 25}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 Far be it from you to do such a thing, to put the righteous to death with the wicked, so that the righteous fare as the wicked! Far be that from you! Shall not the Judge of all the earth do what is just?\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 26}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 And the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93If I find at Sodom fifty righteous in the city, I will spare the whole place for their sake.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 27}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 Abraham answered and said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Behold, I have undertaken to speak to the Lord, I who am but dust and ashes. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 28}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 Suppose five of the fifty righteous are lacking. Will you destroy the whole city for lack of five?\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 And he said, \u8220\'93I will not destroy it if I find forty-five there.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 29}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 Again he spoke to him and said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Suppose forty are found there.\u8221\'94 He answered, \u8220\'93For the sake of forty I will not do it.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 30}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 Then he said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak. Suppose thirty are found there.\u8221\'94 He answered, \u8220\'93I will not do it, if I find thirty there.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 31}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 He said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Behold, I have undertaken to speak to the Lord. Suppose twenty are found there.\u8221\'94 He answered, \u8220\'93For the sake of twenty I will not destroy it.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 32}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 Then he said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak again but this once. Suppose ten are found there.\u8221\'94 He answered, \u8220\'93For the sake of ten I will not destroy it.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 33}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 And the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  went his way, when he had finished speaking to Abraham, and Abraham returned to his place.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}