{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 20\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 He said to them, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Because of your little faith. For truly, I say to you, if you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, \u8216\'91Move from here to there,\u8217\'92 and it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you.\u8221\'94 \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Mt17.20&off=0&ctx=e+not+cast+it+out%3f%E2%80%9D+~20%C2%A0%E2%80%A2He+said+to+them%2c"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Mt 17:20). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 13\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 I can do all things through him who strengthens me. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Php4.13&off=0&ctx=undance+and+c%EF%BB%BFneed.+~13%C2%A0I+can+do+all+thin"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Php 4:13). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 3\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence, }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 4\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.2Pe1.3&off=34&ctx=alling+and+Election%0a~3%C2%A0%E2%80%A2His+divine+power+"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (2 Pe 1:3\endash 4). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs36\b1 6\~}{\f0\fs24 Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 2\~}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Honor your father and mother\u8221\'94 (this is the first commandment with a promise), }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 3\~}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93that it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 4\~}{\f0\fs24 Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Eph6.1&off=21&ctx=hildren+and+Parents%0a~6%C2%A0s%EF%BB%BFChildren%2c+obey+y"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Eph 6:1\endash 4). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 John 15:7\endash 8}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 7}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 8}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 By this my Father is glorified, that you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Revelation 3:20\endash 22}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 20}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and eat with him, and he with me. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 21}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit with me on my throne, as I also conquered and sat down with my Father on his throne. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 22}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92\~\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}