{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  appeared to him by the oaks of Mamre, as he sat at the door of his tent in the heat of the day\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Genesis 18:1). When Abraham saw three men approaching his tents, he eagerly ran out to meet them. Evidently, he recognized them as divine (he addressed them as \u8216\'91the Lord\u8217\'92) and in a great display of hospitality he offered to clean their feet, a place to rest and some bread as he prepared a meal of curds, milk, and beef for them. Waltke writes that Abraham\u8217\'92s meal turned \u8220\'93out to be a royal }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://7C6BC676-3A39-4EC9-B4E0-D103A61D0245"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 banquet.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  He gave the best he had to the Lord! Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s response to the divine visitors also showed that he cared about people. He could have ignored the visitors but went out of his way provide relief and comfort from the heat of day. In bowing to the ground before the feet of the Lord, Abraham also showed himself to be humble (18:2). Instead of commanding his servants to be the wait staff, Abraham took the posture of a servant and personally served his visitors. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abraham provides to us a great example of how to serve and show hospitality to others. Whenever we encounter someone in need we should be moved by our faith to meet their need without grumbling or complaining, especially the needs of our fellow Christians (Galatians 6:10). The apostle Paul wrote \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality\u8221\'94 (Romans 12:13). The pursuit of hospitality is a mark of the faithful Christian\u8217\'92s life.  In fact, hospitality is listed as one of the character qualifications of an oversee/elder in the Lord\u8217\'92s church (1 Timothy 3:2; Titus 1:8). Arrogance has no place in an elder\u8217\'92s life. God\u8217\'92s leaders must lovingly serve the flock of God in order to lead them. Oftentimes this requires an open door to the home and life of an overseer/elder.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 As the Lord dined in the presence of Abraham, He provided more specific details about the end of Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s barrenness: \u8220\'93I will surely return to you about this time next year, and Sarah your wife shall have a son\u8221\'94 (Genesis 18:10). Sarah, who had entered menopause, laughed to herself in unbelief because both her and Abraham were well advanced in years. She found the Lord\u8217\'92s statement incredible because she though it to physically impossible. The Lord confronted Sarah\u8217\'92s unbelief: \u8220\'93Is anything too hard for the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ? At the appointed time I will return to you, about this time next year, and Sarah shall have a son\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Genesis 18:14). Sarah made the mistake we often make - focusing on impossible situations, humanly speaking, rather than the power and promises of God. In fear, Sarah tried to cover up her unbelief with a lie (Genesis 18:15). However, she forgot that she was in the presence of the all-knowing God.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Sarah had good reason to doubt because her body was \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91dead\u8217\'92 to childbearing (Romans 4:19). But, we must remember that God\u8217\'92s power cannot be limited by human reason or inability. His power exceeds any limitation we might face in our lives. All things are possible with God. As we seek to live and serve God faithfully, we should remember that with just a little faith in God we can move mountains (Matthew 17:20). Through faith in God, His power enables us to overcome all the difficulties which block our journey. The Lord resources are infinite and open to those of us willing to exercise faith in Him, for \u8220\'93His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence\u8221\'94 (2 Peter 1:3).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }}