{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 3\endash 5}{\f0\fs24   The emphasis here is on Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s solicitude as host. His actions include giving water to his guests so that they may wash their feet, and offering them rest and food. Once they are }{\f0\fs24\i1 refreshed}{\f0\fs24  (v. 5), they may continue on their journey. Such hospitality in the ancient Near Eastern world would not be strange. Indeed, its absence would be strange and disturbing. The host is responsible for his guest\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s needs and safety as long as the guest remains under his roof. This custom explains Lot\u8217\'92s actions in the following chapter when it is his turn to host a visitor. On an earlier occasion Abraham, when he himself was the visitor, received anything but a hospitable reception from the Egyptians (Gen. 12:10\endash 20).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The masquerade is perpetuated by the visitors. They accept Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s offer: }{\f0\fs24\i1 Very well, do as you have spoken.}{\f0\fs24  They eat! Like Joseph, who conceals his identity from his brothers, Yahweh and his angels conceal their identity from Abraham. He does not know that he is \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93entertaining angels unawares\u8221\'94 (Heb. 13:2).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 It is not necessary to push this story as far as do some commentators, who understand 18:1\endash 15 as a story diluted by the Yahwist from the idea of God eating food to the idea of a meal given to angels unawares. Rather, the eating is a concession by God to Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s ignorance of the one who stands in front of him incognito. In OT thought God inhales the pleasing odor of sacrifice, but he does not consume the sacrifice. Surely it is not without significance that only when Yahweh is in the guise of a wayfarer does he partake of food (18:8; 19:3).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge18.3-5&off=0&ctx=elf+will+not+yield.%0a~3%E2%80%935++The+emphasis+he"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 8\endash 9). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 6\endash 8}{\f0\fs24   Sarah will provide the }{\f0\fs24\i1 cakes}{\f0\fs24  for the meal, using }{\f0\fs24\i1 three seahs of fine flour.}{\f0\fs24  1 Sam. 25:18 tells us Abigail made sufficient provisions for David and his band of outlaws with five seahs of parched grain. The trench Elijah dug around the base of the altar at Mt. Carmel, which was then filled with twelve jars of water, was large enough to hold two seahs of seed (1 K. 18:32). These two references suggest that Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s three seahs is a large amount, which will yield much more bread than the three visitors, Sarah, and Abraham can possibly eat.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s extravagance continues. He provides }{\f0\fs24\i1 curds and milk}{\f0\fs24  (side dishes to bring out the taste of the meat and to diminish their thirst), together with the meat of }{\f0\fs24\i1 a tender and choice calf.}{\f0\fs24  In other entertainment scenes the host is content to provide \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93kids of goats\u8221\'94 (Gen. 27:9; Judg. 6:19; 13:15). That Abraham provides a }{\f0\fs24\i1 calf}{\f0\fs24  shows either his relative prosperity and social standing, or his desire to give his best to his guests, or both. Abraham apparently does not share the meal with the threesome: }{\f0\fs24\i1 He was standing by them under the tree while they ate.}{\f0\fs24  He is both waiter and host.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge18.6-8&off=0&ctx=+any+hidden+motive.%0a~6%E2%80%938++Sarah+will+prov"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 11). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 9}{\f0\fs24   Sarah also does not join around the table. Abraham is standing aside, but Sarah is not seen at all. She is still inside the tent. Perhaps it was not proper for females to eat with males. Later, Rachel would be in a tent and would protest to her father that she was not able to rise so that he could search the entire tent because \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the manner of women\u8221\'94 (lit.; }{\f0\fs24\i1 dere\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7733\'3F n\u257\'61\u353\'9A\u238\'EEm}{\f0\fs24 ) was upon her (31:35). Sarah too is in a tent, but for her \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the manner of women\u8221\'94 (lit.; }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u702\'3F\u333\'6Fra\u7717\'3F kann\u257\'61\u353\'9A\u238\'EEm}{\f0\fs24 ) has ceased (18:11).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge18.9&off=0&ctx=th+waiter+and+host.%0a~9++Sarah+also+does+n"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 11). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 10}{\f0\fs24   All previous promises of a son to Abraham were, to say the least, nebulous and unqualified (e.g., 15:4; 17:16). Now the announcement is more specific. }{\f0\fs24\i1 At this time next year}{\f0\fs24  Sarah is to have a child. Possibility now gives way to specificity.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 It is not clear all that is meant by the phrase }{\f0\fs24\i1 I will surely return to you.}{\f0\fs24  What does the return of the divine presence to Abraham have to do with Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s conception of Isaac? Gen. 21:1 picks up on this promise: \u8220\'93Yahweh visited Sarah as he had said, and Yahweh did to Sarah as he had promised.\u8221\'94 A number of OT texts use }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u353\'9A\u251\'FB\u7687\'3F}{\f0\fs24  with God as subject, and the idea is to return for the sake of showing favor.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge18.10&off=0&ctx=ul+than+was+Cain%E2%80%99s.%0a~10++All+previous+pro"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 12). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 11}{\f0\fs24   Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s earlier protestations regarding fathering a child had focused on his problem (15:4), or on the advanced age of both prospective parents (17:17). Also, such protestations occurred in Abraham\u8217\'92s direct discourse. But here it is the narrator who speaks. He knows Abraham and Sarah are advanced in years and Sarah has }{\f0\fs24\i1 reached menopause.}{\f0\fs24  This phrase reinforces the advanced stage of Sarah. She was not just old or older, but at a point where her menses had ceased. This verse and the following two place special emphasis on the ages of Abraham and Sarah by the three-time use of the root }{\f0\fs24\i1 zqn}{\f0\fs24 . The narrator calls both of them \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93elderly\u8221\'94 (}{\f0\fs24\i1 z}{\f0\fs24\i1\super e}{\f0\fs24\i1 q\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u275\'65n\u238\'EEm}{\f0\fs24 , v. 11), a point made by Sarah about Abraham (}{\f0\fs24\i1 z\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u257\'61q\u275\'65n}{\f0\fs24 , v. 12) and about herself (}{\f0\fs24\i1 z\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u257\'61qant\u238\'EE}{\f0\fs24 , v. 13). The narrator simply states the biological facts. The narrator, while he does not succumb to an outburst of laughter as Abraham did, and as Sarah shortly will, through such asides, injects his own sense of humor and the incredulous into the story. As Sternberg has said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93In his interpolated aside on the age of the prospective parents, he [v. 12, the narrator] goes out of his way to give color to Sarah\u8217\'92s laughter at the visitor\u8217\'92s forecast: the more natural her doubt, the stronger our sense of God\u8217\'92s supernatural prescience.\u8221\'94\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge18.11&off=0&ctx=of+showing+favor.36%0a~11++Abraham%E2%80%99s+earlie"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 12). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 13}{\f0\fs24   Sarah has overheard the anonymous visitor talking to her husband. Now the tables are turned\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the visitor overhears Sarah talking to herself. Here the speaker is identified: }{\f0\fs24\i1 Yahweh.}{\f0\fs24  That explains how he knew Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s name, and how he hears her quite distinctly here, even though she }{\f0\fs24\i1 laughed inwardly}{\f0\fs24  and was probably muttering to herself.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 For such a response Yahweh takes Sarah to task, through her husband: }{\f0\fs24\i1 Why did Sarah laugh?}{\f0\fs24  She is not spoken to directly. Furthermore, Yahweh knows quite well what Sarah had meant by \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93pleasure,\u8221\'94 as is evident from his interpretative quotation of her: }{\f0\fs24\i1 Will I really give birth, even though I am old?}{\f0\fs24  That is what Sarah had in mind, but that is not exactly how she said it. She had drawn attention to both her own age and her husband\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s advanced years (v. 12). Yahweh has Sarah drawing attention to her own advanced age. He discreetly avoids any reference to Abraham the centenarian, for conceivably a man might father a child even at such an age.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 It may seem odd that Yahweh rebukes Sarah for her reservations but does not challenge Abraham for his doubts. We had mentioned earlier that 18:10b and 17:19 would, together, suggest that Abraham kept the announcement of Isaac\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s conception from Sarah. She hears about it (18:10b) quite by accident. Perhaps the rebuke aimed at Sarah indicates that Abraham had shared the news about Isaac with Sarah, but that she still persisted in unbelief. She was not convinced by her husband. Or perhaps, following Speiser, one should translate }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7779\'3F\u257\'61\u7717\'3Faq}{\f0\fs24  in 17:17 as \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93smile,\u8221\'94 rather than as a laughter of disbelief (see commentary on 17:17).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 14}{\f0\fs24   Here Yahweh himself promises to return to Sarah. Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s laughter and display of incredulity provoked this question from Yahweh: }{\f0\fs24\i1 Is anything too demanding}{\f0\fs24  [difficult, impossible] }{\f0\fs24\i1 for Yahweh?}{\f0\fs24  It is a question that neither Abraham nor Sarah tries\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 or has a chance\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 to answer. The guest\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s first question pointed to Sarah. His second question points to himself. In the latter half of this chapter Yahweh is moved out of the role of interrogator and into the role of respondent when Abraham asks him a rhetorical question: \u8220\'93Shall not he who judges all the earth give right judgment?\u8221\'94 (v. 25).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Yahweh\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s question to Abraham is designed to shift the patriarchal couple\u8217\'92s obsession beyond their own hopeless situation and their own limited resources to the limitless resources of their God. Note that Sarah\u8217\'92s unbelief does not abort, or sidetrack, or slow down the promise of God. She will still conceive, whether she thinks she can or cannot. To reinforce this certainty, not only does the text repeat in v. 14 the }{\f0\fs24\i1 k\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u257\'61\u703\'3F\u275\'65\u7791\'3F \u7717\'3Fayy\u225\'E1}{\f0\fs24  }{\f0\fs24\i1 (at this time next year)}{\f0\fs24  of v. 10 but it adds }{\f0\fs24\i1 lamm\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u244\'F4\u703\'3F\u275\'65\u7695\'3F}{\f0\fs24 , at the appointed time.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge18.13&off=0&ctx=of+such+pleasure.38%0a~13++Sarah+has+overhe"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 13\endash 14). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 15}{\f0\fs24   }{\f0\fs24\i1 Because she was afraid.}{\f0\fs24  Fear moves people to do things that are irrational and uncharacteristic of them. Adam hid because he was afraid of God. Abraham deceived because he was afraid of what the Egyptians might do to him. Now Sarah is afraid because she has challenged the authenticity of a divine promise and because she has irked the divine visitor. Thus she lies: }{\f0\fs24\i1 I did not laugh.}{\f0\fs24  A second sin is committed (lying) in an attempt to cover up a first sin (unbelief).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Sarah speaks aloud only once in vv. 1\endash 15\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I did not laugh,\u8221\'94 (v. 15), and softly once (v. 12). Only once is she addressed: \u8220\'93No, you laughed.\u8221\'94 The conversation stops quickly. Abraham makes no contribution to the dialogue between Yahweh and Sarah. By ending on such a note, Yahweh intends for Sarah not to dismiss quickly remembrance of her laughter over the announcement of her forthcoming conception. In effect, Yahweh is providing Sarah with a \u8220\'93recondite hint of the name of the child.\u8221\'94\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge18.15&off=0&ctx=the+appointed+time.%0a~15++Because+she+was+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 14). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f1\fs24\b0\i0}