{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abraham and the Lord shared an intimate relationship as evidenced by the meal they shared. The Lord\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s revelation concerning the impending doom of Sodom and Gomorrah also highlights the close fellowship they shared - \u8220\'93Shall I hide from Abraham what I am about to do seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him?\u8221\'94 (Genesis 18:17). Just as we share our intimate thoughts and plans with close family members and friends, the Lord shares His plan with Abraham because they are friends.  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Furthermore, the Lord revealed His plans to Abraham because he would be the most influential man in God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s plan of redemption for the world. However prior to being a blessing to the nations, he will be a blessing to his own family and progeny. God knew that Abraham would command his children and household to keep the way of the Lord by living righteously and justly (Genesis 18:19). Because of his relationship with the Lord, Abraham passed down God\u8217\'92s will for right living to his descendants. Though not sinless, Abraham\u8217\'92s faith in God led him to promote spiritual welfare of his family and household. God\u8217\'92s plan for mankind is that His ways be passed down through the generations within the home (Deuteronomy 6:6; Proverbs 1:8). God has entrusted Christian fathers with the responsibility of raising children in the way of the Lord: \u8220\'93Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord\u8221\'94 (Ephesians 6:4). Satan\u8217\'92s strategy includes distracting fathers (parents) from the all-important responsibility of teaching and training their children to live according to God\u8217\'92s will. Our children\u8217\'92 spiritual development does not exclude but is more important than their physical health, academic achievement, social status, career prospects, etc. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 When the Lord told Abraham that He intended to bring destruction upon the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, Abraham interceded for the righteous who might be caught in the impending judgment, specifically Lot (18:23-32). Starting at fifty, Abraham bargains with God to spare the cities if He found that number of righteous people there. The Lord finally agrees to spare Sodom if even ten righteous people could be found. Such bargaining (intercession) highlights the close relationship Abraham enjoyed with the Lord. Jesus said in John 15:7, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you.\u8221\'94 If we want to have an effective prayer life to be able to intercede like Abraham, fellowship with Christ and obedience to His will are the prerequisites. }}