{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The wickedness of Sodom and Gomorrah had reached such high levels that God decided to judge the cities. He informed Abraham, His friend, of the impending doom, which prompted Abraham to intercede for the righteous of the city. The Lord agreed to withhold judgment if the city contained at least ten righteous people. The two angels who accompanied the Lord\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s visit to Abraham went on to Sodom in order to seek out the righteous. This will end up being the last act of mercy extended to the citizens of the wicked cities.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 When the two angels get to Sodom they are greeted by Lot at the city gate. The gates of ancient cities served as hubs of the city\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s civic, business, and legal activities. They were often well built, large areas consisting of towers, guards, and places to sit. The city gate was basically the center of the city\u8217\'92s power and activities. The fact that Lot sits at the city gate to greet the visiting angels suggests that he had fully immersed himself into the life and culture of Sodom. He may have even been a leader in Sodom. However, Lot shows himself to be somewhat different from his fellow Sodomites when he extends hospitality to the angels. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In OT and NT times, the extension of hospitality to others, especially to travelers, demonstrated one\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s character and inclination towards God. In defense of his righteousness, Job argued that he opened his home to the traveler (Job 31:32). The Lord, through the prophet Isaiah, scolded Israel for neglecting to show hospitality to the homeless (Isaiah 58:7). Jesus highlighted Simon\u8217\'92s lack of hospitality by comparing the Pharisee\u8217\'92s actions to that of the sinful woman who anointed Jesus (Luke 7:44-46). The rich man demonstrated his greed and selfishness through his inhospitable treatment of the beggar Lazarus (Luke 16:19-31). In Genesis 19, the men of Sodom displayed perverse wickedness through their attempt to molest the visiting angels.}}