{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  As soon as nightfall, the men of Sodom revealed why they outcry against the city was so great. Before the angels had a chance to lay down, the men of the city, young and old, surrounded Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s home and demanded, \u8220\'93Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us, that we may know them\u8221\'94 (Genesis 19:5 ESV). The Hebrew word for \u8220\'93know\u8221\'94 is \u8220\'93yada\u8221\'94, which in this context means \u8220\'93to know a person }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C9D14920-5307-4C54-B0FC-45C141F82FBA"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 carnally.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  It refers to sexual intercourse and is the same word used in Genesis 4:1, where Adam and Eve come together to conceive Cain (see also  Genesis 4:17,25; 24:16; 38:26). It becomes clear from the context that the issue is intercourse when Lot responds by offering his daughters \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93who have never known a man\u8221\'94 (19:8). The picture here is of men so depraved and driven by unnatural lust that they demand to have homosexual sex with Lot\u8217\'92s visitors! The depravity depicted shows the depth to which the human heart can sink. Other notable sins associated with Sodom and Gomorrah in Scripture include social oppression, adultery, lying, criminal enterprise, pride, complacency, and neglect of the poor (Isaiah 1:10,17; Jeremiah 23:14; Ezekiel 16:49). }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In these modern times when homosexual (gay/same-sex) marriage has become legalized and even promoted by some in Christendom as God-honoring, we must resist conformity to the depravity of our age.  Scripture always speaks of homosexual behavior in a negative sense. The Law prohibited homosexual behavior among the Israelites (Leviticus 18:22; 20:13) and the apostle Paul taught that those who practice homosexuality will not inherit the kingdom of God (1 Corinthians 6:9). Many have twisted the Scriptures to accommodate the argument that one is \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93born gay\u8221\'94 and therefore intended by God to be gay. However, we must remember that Adam\u8217\'92s sin affected the entire human race both spiritually and physically (Genesis 2:16-17; 3:17-19). From the earliest years of life, if not from birth, the fallen flesh produces sinful desires, including homosexual orientation. We have the choice whether to act upon our sinful desires. Christians have the charge \u8220\'93to put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires, and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds, and to put on the new self, created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness\u8221\'94 (Ephesians 4:22-24).}
\par\pard\plain \fi240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Having rejected Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s offer of his daughters, the men of the city tried to force their way into Lot\u8217\'92s house, but the angels protect Lot and strike the men with blindness. However, the men continue to wear themselves out trying to get into Lot\u8217\'92s house. Such is the nature of sin. Unabated lust seeks to be fulfilled at all costs. If not checked, frustrated desire can lead to argumentation, conflict, and even violence in our homes and churches (James 4:1-3). All of us are susceptible to adopting a covetous lifestyle, continually desiring more money, possessions, sexual fulfillment, etc. We should remember that \u8220\'93Sheol and Abaddon are never satisfied, and never satisfied are the eyes of man\u8221\'94 (Proverbs 27:20). }}