{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The angels pronounced the final sentence of judgment against Sodom and Gomorrah, commanding Lot to persuade his loved ones to leave the city. He tried to get his daughters\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 fiances to leave, but Lot had no moral influence over them. Lot\u8217\'92s personal testimony was so meaningless that they laughed at him (Genesis 19:12-14). Lot was so attached to his home, business, possessions, and status in Sodom that it made it difficult for him to leave. The next morning, the angels had to literally drag Lot, his wife, and their two daughters out of the city (Genesis 19:15-16)! While we might be tempted to say Lot deserved to be left behind, this should remind us of the mercy God has shown us, for \u8220\'93he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit\u8221\'94 (Titus 3:5). }
\par\pard\plain \fi240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Once they reached the city limits, the angels commanded Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s family to run for their lives to hills outside of the city (Genesis 15:17). Amazingly, Lot continued to display a lack of faith by pleading to be allowed to escape to a nearby city (Zoar) because he does not believe he will be protected in the hills. The angel responded \u8220\'93Behold, I grant you this favor also, that I will not overthrow the city of which you have spoken. Escape there quickly, for I can do nothing till you arrive there\u8221\'94 (Genesis 19:21-22). This accommodation gives us a marvelous picture of God\u8217\'92s grace to very weak and imperfect people. Let us be grateful that \u8220\'93For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly\u8221\'94 (Romans 5:6).}
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 When Lot arrived in Zoar, God rained burning sulfur on Sodom, Gomorrah, and the cities of the plain. Unfortunately, Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s wife disobeyed the command of the angels: \u8220\'93But Lot\u8217\'92s wife, behind him, looked back, and she became a pillar of salt\u8221\'94 (Genesis 19:26). Her love for Sodom, depicted in her staying behind Lot and looking back, led to her inclusion in God\u8217\'92s judgment against the cities of the Plain. Jesus, who compared his future coming and judgment to the destruction of Sodom, warned us to remember Lot\u8217\'92s wife (Luke 17:32). We must urgently cut any attachment to worldly pleasures, wealth, money, possessions, and honor which prevent us from being spiritually prepared for the Lord\u8217\'92s return. When that Day comes, having a big, beautiful home or a million-dollar retirement fund will not be important. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}