{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;\red240\green240\blue240;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-720\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs28 \tab }{\f0\fs28\b1 Abraham Had His Prayer Answered\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Lot Was Saved and Sodom Destroyed: The Picture of Backsliding Faith, 19:1\endash 38}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (19:1\endash 38) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Introduction}{\f0\fs24 : remember Lot. He had every advantage imaginable to know the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  and to live life to the fullest.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He was taken in and reared by Abraham when Abraham first trusted God and began his journey of faith. But he apparently paid little attention to the testimony and witness of Abraham (Ge. 12:4\endash 5).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He was given the first choice of land by Abraham, but he chose selfishly and settled close to Sodom (Ge. 13:5\endash 18).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He was rescued from enslavement when captured by the invading army of kings from the East (Ge. 14:12\endash 16). But instead of returning with Abraham, he chose to return to Sodom.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Lot loved Sodom and the opportunities the city offered him both for business and personal pleasure. Lot coveted the city\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s bright lights, the opportunity for wealth, possessions, pleasure, and position. Scripture gives a graphic picture of Lot\u8217\'92s love for Sodom, the declining stages he went through in moving closer and closer to Sodom and its carnal and wicked way of life:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Lot first of all }{\f0\fs24\i1 lifted up his eyes and looked upon}{\f0\fs24  Sodom and the rich, fertile valley of the Jordan in which the city sat (Ge. 13:10\endash 11).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Lot then chose to move, }{\f0\fs24\i1 pitching his tent toward}{\f0\fs24  Sodom (Ge. 13:12\endash 13).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Lot later }{\f0\fs24\i1 moved into}{\f0\fs24  the city (Ge. 14:12).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Lot finally is seen }{\f0\fs24\i1 sitting at the gate of Sodom}{\f0\fs24 , which meant that he was most likely some city official (Ge. 19:1).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Lot began the pilgrimage to the promised land with Abraham. But once there, he saw the bright lights and business opportunities of Sodom. Instead of focusing upon the heavenly city\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the promised land\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 he looked and looked at Sodom until the attraction of the city consumed him. Eventually, Lot became one with the city and its ungodly people. Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s life is a graphic picture of backsliding, a dangerous threat to us all. Lot was saved, genuinely saved. Scripture says so:}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And [God] delivered just Lot, vexed with the filthy conversation [behavior] of the wicked: for that righteous man dwelling among them, in seeing and hearing, vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds\u8221\'94 (2 Pe. 2:7\endash 8)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 But Lot fell back, lived a carnal, fleshly life. He was right at home with the sinful and wicked of the earth. A disheartening picture. Nevertheless, a picture of warning, a graphic picture that warns us of the coming judgment upon all the backsliding believers and the wicked of this earth.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Henry Morris says this:}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\i1 What a perfect picture Lot exhibits of a modern-day carnal Christian! He thinks he has the best of both worlds\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the eternal benefit of knowing the Lord as Savior, but also all the temporal benefits that result from worldly influence and possessions, together with acceptance by and fellowship with men of the world. Their gross wickedness may vex his soul a bit, and he may not wish to enter into quite all of their activities, but in general he gets along with them just fine, and is quite pleased with himself that he does. A day of reckoning will come, however}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 This is the subject of this important passage: }{\f0\fs24\i1 Abraham Had His Prayer Answered\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Lot Was Saved and Sodom Destroyed: The Picture of Backsliding Faith}{\f0\fs24 , 19:1\endash 38.}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1.\tab Picture 1: Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s compromise with the world (vv. 1\endash 3).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2.\tab Picture 2: Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s depravity (vv. 4\endash 11).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 3.\tab Picture 3: Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s powerless life and testimony (vv. 12\endash 14).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 4.\tab Picture 4: Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s desire to linger in the world (vv. 15\endash 22).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 5.\tab Picture 5: Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s warning of judgment\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 a lesson for all (vv. 23\endash 26).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 6.\tab Picture 6: Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s deliverance\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 in answer to prayer (vv. 27\endash 29).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 7.\tab Picture 7: Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s tragic end\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 results of backsliding (vv. 30\endash 38).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge19.1-38&off=8761&ctx=n+unto+this+day.%0a%0aM.~+Abraham+Had+His+Pra"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 99\endash 100). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 1}{\f0\fs24  (19:1\endash 3) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Compromise\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Worldliness}{\f0\fs24 : the first picture of backsliding is Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s compromise with the world. Remember, the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  had stayed behind with Abraham. Only the two angels went to Sodom. They arrived in the evening. Note two facts.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. Lot sat in the gateway of Sodom. He was there for one of two reasons.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Lot was either the mayor or a city official responsible for city government and for settling disputes between citizens. City officials, acting as judges, sat at the gate for that purpose (see De. 21:19\endash 21; 22:15; Ruth 4:1; Pr. 31:23). Abraham had saved Sodom from foreign conquest (see Ge. 14:1\endash 24). Perhaps the citizens had honored Lot, making him a city official because of what his uncle had done for them.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Lot had compromised his values and was now living with the worldly. Perhaps he was at the gate, the public gathering place, either to conduct business or just pass the time away with the worldly. He was \u8220\'93walking in the counsel of the ungodly, standing in the way of sinners, and sitting in the seat of the scornful\u8221\'94 (Ps. 1:1; see Ps. 69:12; 2 Pe. 2:8).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 b. Lot was a believer, consequently there was some inner goodness within him. There was more to Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s invitation than just Eastern social tradition and kindness. There was an urgency, an anxiety in his invitation: he insisted, \u8220\'93pressed \u8230\'85 greatly\u8221\'94 upon them to accept his invitation (v. 3). He knew the city and the people, the moral degradation. He knew the threat and danger to the strangers\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the threat and danger that in fact happened (vv. 4\endash 11). Note that a spiritual awareness, an inner goodness, is still seen even in the midst of Lot\u8217\'92s carnality and failure.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The two angels probably refused the invitation at first because they had come to investigate the wickedness of the city or else out of politeness, not wishing to inconvenience Lot.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . J. Vernon McGee gives a descriptive picture and application of the conversation between Lot and the angels:}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\i1 They had brought out something when they said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93We\u8217\'92ll stay on the street and just sleep in the park,\u8221\'94 and Lot says to them, \u8220\'93You don\u8217\'92t do that in Sodom. It\u8217\'92s dangerous! Your life wouldn\u8217\'92t be worth a thing if you did that.\u8221\'94 May I say that maybe Los Angeles ought to change its name to Sodom. It would not be safe for you to sleep on the streets of Los Angeles; in fact, it is not safe at all to be on the streets of Los Angeles at night. Many women who live alone will not come out to church at night. One dear saint of God told me, \u8220\'93I just lock my door at dark, Brother McGee, and I do not open that door until the next morning at daylight. It\u8217\'92s not safe in my neighborhood to even walk on the street.\u8221\'94 The days of Sodom and Gomorrah are here again, and practically for the same reason. Lot says, \u8220\'93No, men, do not stay on the street. It wouldn\u8217\'92t be safe for you.\u8221\'94 When he \u8220\'93pressed upon them,\u8221\'94 they came in}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge19.1-3&off=0&ctx=liding+(vv.+30%E2%80%9338).%0a~1+(19:1%E2%80%933)+Compromis"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 100\endash 101). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 2}{\f0\fs24  (19:4\endash 11) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Depravity\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Homosexuality\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Immorality}{\f0\fs24 : the second picture of backsliding is Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s depravity. The scene pictured here is shocking. It shows how utterly depraved the human heart can become. But it also shows how far believers can backslide, how carnal and fleshly-minded they can become. These verses give a graphic picture of Lot\u8217\'92s depravity, as well as the depravity of the Sodomites.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. Lot had chosen a godless, depraved environment when he moved to Sodom (vv. 4\endash 5}{\f0\fs24\super a}{\f0\fs24 ). Note that a mob of people from all over the city surrounded Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s house. Both young and old burned with }{\f0\fs24\i1 unnatural lust}{\f0\fs24 : they shouted out their desires for sex, for homosexual sex. The mob was not acting in secret; they were shouting aloud their cravings and sexual preference. They were out to commit homosexual rape against Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s visitors.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 b. Lot had made his home with the depraved and wicked of the earth, becoming one with them (vv. 6\endash 7). What a tragic picture of backsliding! Note that Lot went outside to meet the mob and called them }{\f0\fs24\i1 brothers, friends}{\f0\fs24  (v. 7). Lot knew these people: they were his day-to-day friends, acquaintances, neighbors, and business associates. He had lived among the worldly too long; he had no testimony before them. In their minds, he was like them, one of them: loving the world and the things of the world. Thus they expected him to grant their wish.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 c. Lot had become consumed with selfishness and compromise (v. 8). This is a horrible, unbelievable scene. Lot offered to give his daughters to the mob in exchange for the guests. How could he do this?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Was he trying to save his own life, standing there face to face with the mob, fearing their threats?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Was he so threatened and so fearful that he was in a confused state of mind?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Did he know that his guests were angels, and he was willing to sacrifice his two daughters to save them?}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Scripture does not say, but whatever the case, Lot was only substituting one sin for another sin, the giving up of his daughters to satisfy the evil lusts of the mob. No doubt, being forced to have sex with so many men would have killed his daughters, and Lot would have known this. He was engulfed by a spirit of selfishness and evil compromise.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 d. Lot had lived a hypocritical life: he had sat at the gate, judging and reproving the citizens of Sodom for their injustices while living a compromising and worldly life (v. 9). Scripture actually tells us this:}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93For that righteous man dwelling among them, in seeing and hearing, vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds\u8221\'94 (2 Pe. 2:8)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Lot had attempted to influence his fellow citizens for good: he had sat at the city gate as one of the ruling officials of the city, judging and censoring many; but he had lived a worldly, compromising life. Note that the mob actually accused Lot of living a hypocritical life, shouting that they would tolerate it no more. They began to attack him.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Note: a hypocritical, compromising believer\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 a backsliding believer\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 will usually be ridiculed, mocked, and eventually rejected, just as Lot was.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 e. Lot was delivered by the two angels (vv. 10\endash 11). They struck the mob with some form of blindness and quickly opened the door and pulled Lot back into the house.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Henry Morris gives an excellent application of these verses to our day and time:}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\i1 The fact that the old men as well as the young were driven by these lusts, and that, rather than practicing them in secret, they shouted their desires aloud in the streets, adds still another dimension to the enormity of the thing. No wonder God had told Abraham that \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and their sin is very grievous\u8221\'94 (18:20). In these modern days, after two thousand years of Christian teaching to which the Sodomites never had access, what must God think of the current revival of homosexuality, manifest in \u8220\'93gay liberation\u8221\'94 movements and political organizations, and even \u8220\'93gay\u8221\'94 religious societies, not only among liberals, but even among some evangelicals?}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The show [look] of their countenance [face] doth witness against them; and they declare their sin as Sodom, they hide it not. Woe unto their soul! for they have rewarded evil unto themselves\u8221\'94 (Is. 3:9)}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge19.4-11&off=0&ctx=em%2c%E2%80%9D+they+came+in.2%0a~2+(19:4%E2%80%9311)+Depravit"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 101). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24


\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clcbpat5\cellx4000

\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps\cb5\highlight5 Deeper Study}{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5  # 1}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 (19:4) }{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 Sodom}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 : Sodom was located at the southern tip of the Dead Sea, and its ruins are thought to lie under the sea today. The city was destroyed because of sin, especially the sin of sexual perversion (Ge. 13:13, see 18:20; 19:13, 24). The sin for which Sodom is known is homosexuality; in fact, the sin of homosexuality was so common in Sodom that it has become proverbial (sodomy). Sodomy\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 homosexuality and other forms of sexual perversion\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 is referred to throughout Scripture when sin and judgment are the subject.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx720\li720\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 1.\tab The following is said about the sin of Sodom.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 a.\tab It is a sin that made men very wicked and sinful.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li1080\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps\cb5\highlight5 Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5  exceedingly\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Ge. 13:13)}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 .}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 b.\tab It is forbidden by law.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li1080\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93There shall be no whore of the daughters of Israel, nor a sodomite of the sons of Israel\u8221\'94 (De. 23:17)}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 .}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 c.\tab It was a sin committed by some in Israel.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li1080\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And there were also sodomites in the land: and they did according to all the abominations of the nations which the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps\cb5\highlight5 Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5  cast out before the children of Israel\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (1 K. 14:24)}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 .}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 d.\tab It was one of the enslaving sins of the ancient world, a sin that led to \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93all forms of unrighteousness.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li1080\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93For this cause God gave them up unto vile affections: for even their women did change the natural use into that which is against nature: and likewise also the men, leaving the natural use of the woman, burned in their lust one toward another; men with men working that which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves that recompence of their error which was meet.\u8230\'85 Who knowing the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death, not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them\u8221\'94 (Ro. 1:26\endash 27, 32)}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 .}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 e.\tab It was a sin that debased and cheapened religion.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li1080\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And he broke down the houses of the sodomites, that were by the house of the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps\cb5\highlight5 Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 , where the women wove hangings for the grove\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (2 K. 23:7)}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 .}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx720\li720\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 2.\tab The following is said about the judgment of Sodom and of sodomites, homosexuals.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 a.\tab The land was judged, purified of the sin.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li1080\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And he took away the sodomites out of the land, and removed all the idols that his fathers had made\u8221\'94 (1 K. 15:12)}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 .}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li1080\fi360\ri360\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And the remnant of the sodomites, which remained in the days of his father Asa, he took out of the land\u8221\'94 (1 K. 22:46)}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 .}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 b.\tab The worship center (house of the }{\f0\fs24\scaps\cb5\highlight5 Lord}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 ) was purified of the sin.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li1080\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And he broke down the houses of the sodomites, that were by the house of the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps\cb5\highlight5 Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 , where the women wove hangings for the grove\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (2 K. 23:7)}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 .}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 c.\tab The judgment of Sodom is a picture of the future judgment\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the judgment yet to come.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li1080\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Verily I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrha in the day of judgment, than for that city\u8221\'94 (Mt. 10:15)}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 .}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li1080\fi360\ri360\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93But the same day that Lot went out of Sodom it rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed [them] all. Even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of man is revealed\u8221\'94 (Lu. 17:29\endash 30)}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 .}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrha into ashes condemned them with an overthrow, making them an example unto those that after should live ungodly\u8221\'94 (2 Pe. 2:6)}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 .}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Even as Sodom and Gomorrha, and the cities about them in like manner, giving themselves over to fornication, and going after strange flesh, are set forth for an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire\u8221\'94 (Jude 7)}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 .}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx720\li720\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 3.\tab The }{\f0\fs24\scaps\cb5\highlight5 Lord}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5  Himself, however, gave great hope to the sodomites, the homosexuals of this earth. He said \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 \bullet \tab that Sodom was judged and destroyed because of sin, but that it would not have been destroyed if its people had repented}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 \bullet \tab that Sodom and its people would answer for much in the day of judgment, but not for having neglected and rejected Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Note: how much more judgment will fall upon sodomites (homosexuals) who are guilty of both sodomy (homosexuality) and of rejecting Christ}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\fi360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 But there is hope for every Sodomite: he or she can repent\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 turn away from their sin\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 and trust Jesus Christ as their Savior and Lord.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li1080\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted unto heaven, shalt be brought down to hell: for if the mighty works, which have been done in thee, had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day\u8221\'94 (Mt. 11:23)}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 .}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li1080\fi360\ri360\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Then Peter said unto them, Repent, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost\u8221\'94 (Acts 2:38)}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 .}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord\u8221\'94 (Acts 3:19)}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 .}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and pray God, if perhaps the thought of thine heart may be forgiven thee\u8221\'94 (Acts 8:22)}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 .}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him return unto the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps\cb5\highlight5 Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 , and he will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Is 55:7)}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 .}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93But if the wicked will turn from all his sins that he hath committed, and keep all my statutes, and do that which is lawful and right, he shall surely live, he shall not die\u8221\'94 (Eze. 18:21)}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge19.4-11&off=4987&ctx=m%E2%80%9D+(Jude+7%2c+14%E2%80%9315).%0a~Deeper+Study+%23+1%0a(19"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 102\endash 103). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24\cell{
\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clcbpat5\cellx4000
\row}\pard
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 3}{\f0\fs24  (19:12\endash 14) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Testimony, Weak\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Lot, Life of}{\f0\fs24 : the third picture of backsliding is Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s powerless testimony and life. Lot was warned by the angels to save his family, for the city was to be destroyed because of its wickedness. Lot warned his family, but note what happened: they ridiculed and mocked him.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab His message of judgment was not believed.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab His own personal testimony was meaningless: he had lived a carnal, worldly life too long before his family. There was no difference between his life and the lives of the worldly. He had failed to point his family\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 his children\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 to God.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . We must not fail to lead our children to Christ nor fail to teach them the ways of the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (1)\tab Lot failed\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 miserably failed\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 to obey God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s instructions in rearing his children.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And thou shalt teach them [God\u8217\'92s commandments] diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up\u8221\'94 (De. 6:7)}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge19.12-14&off=0&ctx=die%E2%80%9D+(Eze.+18:21).%0a%0a~3+(19:12%E2%80%9314)+Testimo"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 103). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 4}{\f0\fs24  (19:15\endash 22) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Worldliness}{\f0\fs24 : the fourth picture of backsliding is Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s desire to linger in the world. This is a descriptive picture of how far a believer can backslide. A believer can actually fall in love with the world despite the severe warnings of imminent judgment.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. There was the urgent warning (v. 15). The two angels warned Lot: he needed to hurry, take his wife and two daughters and get out; flee the city lest they all be consumed.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 b. Lot lingered (v. 16). The very thought of leaving home, business, and possessions\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 his attachment to the world and the things of the world\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 made it very difficult for him to leave. But God had mercy upon him: the two angels grabbed the hands of Lot, his wife, and daughters leading them out of the city.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 c. There was an incredible spiritual weakness (vv. 17\endash 20). What happened now was almost unbelievable, that a believer could slip back so far that he would crave the world \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab despite his having just been saved from a catastrophic death by the glorious mercy of God}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab despite his facing impending judgment}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 When the angels led Lot and his family outside the city, the angels warned Lot again and urged him to escape for his life, to flee to the mountains out of the plain lest he be consumed (v. 17). But Lot pleaded against God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s will (v. 18):}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Lot claimed to be physically incapable of reaching the mountain, that he might not be able to climb it in time to escape the destruction (v. 19). But this was a camouflage, self-deception for a worldly heart. God was saving him from the coming judgment, and God would have strengthened him for the journey to the mountain. Lot knew this.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Lot pleaded for the right to escape to a city nearby, to Zoar (v. 20). Tragic, pitiful, sorry\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 how sorry a person Lot had become, begging to stay close to Sodom, to the comforts of the world he had known. Remember, Lot was a wealthy businessman with large herds and holdings. Perhaps he thought his herds might be spared (after all, they were outside the city) if he could get God to spare Zoar and let him live there. Whatever the case, Lot was still trying to hold on to the world, to its possessions and comforts, to hold on even after God had just done so much for him. And Lot was very aware of the mercy God was showing him. He clearly said so (v. 19).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 d. God now accepted Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s choice: he was allowed to live in Zoar and to continue living a worldly, carnal life (vv. 21\endash 22). God pleaded no more; He gave Lot up to his life of carnality and worldliness. But God went ahead and saved Lot, saved him because of Abraham\u8217\'92s prayer. (See note\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 18:22\endash 26.)}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways: and a good man shall be satisfied from himself\u8221\'94 (Pr. 14:14)}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge19.15-22&off=0&ctx=f+him%E2%80%9D+(Ge.+18:19).%0a~4+(19:15%E2%80%9322)+Worldli"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 103\endash 104). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24


\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clcbpat5\cellx4000

\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps\cb5\highlight5 Deeper Study}{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5  # 2}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 (19:21\endash 22) }{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 Zoar}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 : the name of the city means }{\f0\fs24\i1\cb5\highlight5 little}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 . Zoar was a small Canaanite city that had been founded close to Sodom and Gomorrah.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx720\li720\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Zoar was one of the cities attacked and defeated by an invading army from the East, but its citizens were saved by Abraham (Ge. 14:2, 8).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx720\li720\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Zoar was one of the cities God had appointed to be destroyed along with Sodom and Gomorrah. However, it was saved in answer to Lot\u8217\'92s prayer (Ge. 19:22).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx720\li720\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Zoar was a part of the promised land (De. 34:3).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx720\li720\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Zoar was a city to which fugitives fled (Is. 15:5).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx720\li720\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Zoar is to be judged and know the wrath of God (Je. 48:34).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge19.15-22&off=3656&ctx=st+love%E2%80%9D+(Re.+2:4).%0a~Deeper+Study+%23+2%0a(19"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 104). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24\cell{
\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clcbpat5\cellx4000
\row}\pard
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 5}{\f0\fs24  (19:23\endash 26) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Judgment\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Sodom\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Gomorrah}{\f0\fs24 : the fifth picture of backsliding is Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s warning of judgment, a lesson for all of us.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. The }{\f0\fs24\i1 compromising believer}{\f0\fs24  lost everything (v. 23). Lot lost his home, his possessions, and all his wealth; but most tragic of all, he lost all of his family except two unmarried daughters. He had trusted the world, and now his world was gone.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 b. The }{\f0\fs24\i1 depraved unbelievers}{\f0\fs24  were judged; they suffered the condemnation of fire and brimstone (sulphur) (v. 24). Note these facts:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1)\tab Four cities were actually destroyed, all the cities of the area: Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboiim. Only Zoar was spared because of Lot (De. 29:23, see Ho. 11:8).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2)\tab The }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  Himself rained the fire and brimstone or sulphur down upon the cities. That is, God caused the judgment. The fire and brimstone are said twice to have come from the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  (v. 24).}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 H.C. Leupold says this:}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\i1 The \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93fire\u8221\'94 which rained down from heaven may have been lightning. The \u8220\'93sulphur\u8221\'94 may have been miraculously wrought and so have rained down together with the lightnings, although there is the other possibility that a huge explosion of highly inflammable materials, including sulphur, deposited in the ground (cf. the \u8220\'93bitumen pits\u8221\'94 of 14:10) may have cast these materials, especially the sulphur, high into the air so that they rained upon these cities, causing a vast conflagration}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Henry Morris says this:}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\i1 It seems possible, therefore, that God triggered an earthquake along the great fault at this time, which released and exposed to the atmosphere vast quantities of combustible hydrocarbons and sulphur. At the same time, God sent \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93fire from heaven,\u8221\'94 which ignited the mixture in a great explosion and devastating fire. To Abraham, watching afar off with great concern ever since his intercessory prayer before the }{\f0\fs24\i1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\i1 , it seemed as though \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the smoke of the country went up as the smoke of a furnace.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\i1 The \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93fire and brimstone\u8221\'94 that fell from heaven possibly refers to the burning gas and sulphur that were blown into the air in the explosion and then fell back to the earth throughout the region. The most likely naturalistic explanation for the ignition of these materials probably would be that of a simultaneous electrical storm, in which case the lightning itself could also be described as \u8220\'93fire from heaven.\u8221\'94 Similar terminology is used in Job 1:16; Ezekiel 38:22, and elsewhere, for what probably are also violent atmospheric phenomena}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\i1 Since natural physical phenomena, divinely timed, do seem adequate to explain the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, perhaps we should interpret the story in this way. We do not want to exclude the possibility, however, that a specially created divine fire was sent supernaturally from heaven to ignite the region. The Bible does record other such things, as in the days of Gideon (Judges 6:21), Elijah (1 Kings 18:38), and others. It is interesting that the word for \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93brimstone\u8221\'94 in the New Testament is the Greek theion, meaning literally \u8220\'93God\u8217\'92s fire.\u8221\'94 The personal connection of God and the two angelic messengers with Sodom\u8217\'92s destruction in itself tends to suggest that the \u8220\'93rain of brimstone and fire from the }{\f0\fs24\i1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\i1  out of heaven\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 was actually supernatural. There is certainly no reason for us to question either God\u8217\'92s ability or the appropriateness of a true creative miracle in this situation}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 3)\tab Note that the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93overthrew\u8221\'94 the cities (v. 25). The idea of \u8220\'93overthrow\u8221\'94 is that of people standing against God: standing up in His face, cursing Him, standing up against Him in all their immorality, lawlessness, and rebellion. Consequently, God had to overthrow them, cast them down in judgment.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . How like the world today! Just think of the people within every city who stand against God and \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab curse Him}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab rebel against Him}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab commit immorality}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab are lawless}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The day is coming when God has to overthrow the cities of the earth, when He has to cast them down in judgment. God is going to judge every one of us.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory: and before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth [his] sheep from the goats: and he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.\u8230\'85 Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels\u8221\'94 (Mt. 25:31\endash 34, 41)}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge19.23-26&off=0&ctx=f+God+(Je.+48:34).%0a%0a~5+(19:23%E2%80%9326)+Judgmen"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 104\endash 105). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 6}{\f0\fs24  (19:27\endash 29) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Prayer}{\f0\fs24 : the sixth picture of backsliding is Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s deliverance in answer to prayer. Lot and his two daughters were saved only because of Abraham\u8217\'92s prayer.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. Note the prayer warrior\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s urgent anticipation. Abraham arose early to see what had happened. What he saw, no doubt, struck him with the deepest sorrow and emotional strain. The whole plain was filled with a dense smoke soaring up into the sky, a smoke so dense that it seemed to be furiously flowing up from a huge burning furnace, a furnace so large that it seemed to cover the whole area.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 b. God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s remembrance of Abraham\u8217\'92s prayer is recounted. Note that Lot was not saved for his own sake: he had not followed God nor been a witness for God. He had lived for this world, lived for the bright lights, pleasures, money, wealth, property, position, honor, and possessions of this world. He had lived a carnal, worldly, fleshly life. There was no reason for God to save and keep him upon this earth: he just was not a witness for God. In fact, he damaged and disgraced God\u8217\'92s name. He shamed God, discredited Him, and blemished the name of other believers, for he was living a hypocritical life. Lot was saved for one reason and for one reason only: Abraham, his uncle, had prayed for him; and God heard and answered his prayer (v. 29).}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much\u8221\'94 (Js. 5:16)}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge19.27-29&off=0&ctx=+him%E2%80%9D+(Jude+14%E2%80%9315).%0a~6+(19:27%E2%80%9329)+Prayer:"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 105). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 c. Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s wife\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the spouse of the backslider\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 loved the world and suffered the judgment of God (v. 26). Note that Lot\u8217\'92s wife was \u8220\'93behind him.\u8221\'94 The idea is that she hesitated and had fallen some distance back. Lot\u8217\'92s wife loved Sodom and the comfortable life she had been living. She was, no doubt, feeling the pain of leaving Sodom and having to give up \u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab the bright lights and social life of the city}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab her home and possessions}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab her friends and neighbors}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 She was, after all, one of the more prominent wives in the city, her husband being a city official, perhaps even the mayor. She was well known and liked, a member of all the major social clubs and functions of the city.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Perhaps she had lagged back because she questioned the warnings of judgment, longed to return, and debated whether to question Lot about returning. Whatever the reason, she had dropped back and was thinking about Sodom, her home and the comforts of the life she had been living. And then it happened: she looked back, and she immediately was turned into a pillar of salt (v. 26). What does this mean?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab It could mean that God miraculously acted and judged Lot\u8217\'92s wife by turning her into a pillar of salt.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab It could mean that one of the volcanic explosions threw a salt deposit up into the air and God caused it to fall upon Lot\u8217\'92s wife when she disobeyed.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab It could mean that she failed to rush far enough to escape the onrushing lava from the volcanic eruptions. She was thus buried and petrified in the ash and other materials (salt materials).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge19.27-29&off=1380&ctx=h+much%E2%80%9D+(Js.+5:16).%0a~c.+Lot%E2%80%99s+wife%E2%80%94the+sp"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 106). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 7}{\f0\fs24  (19:30\endash 38) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Backsliding, Results}{\f0\fs24 : the seventh picture of backsliding is Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s tragic end, the results of backsliding.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. There was fear. Lot and his two daughters had gone to Zoar, but just how long they stayed there is not known. All we know is that while there, Lot began to }{\f0\fs24\i1 fear}{\f0\fs24 . Fear what? Did he fear the citizens of Zoar? Did they look with suspicion upon Lot and resent him, wondering if he was somehow to be blamed for the destruction of Sodom and the other cities? This is a possible explanation, but the context seems to indicate that he feared more judgment from God, that Zoar might also be destroyed by God. Zoar sat right in the middle of the destruction: Sodom and Gomorrah sat north and the other two cities sat south of Zoar. Consequently, mass destruction surrounded Zoar. It had been a flourishing city, but now the fertile land and the cities that had surrounded it and provided commerce were destroyed. Zoar\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s wealth and markets were gone, the economy bankrupt. It was no longer a desirable place to live. Lot, in seeing all the surrounding destruction and knowing that Zoar sat right in the middle of the devastation, probably remembered that God had spared Zoar only because of him. God had originally planned to judge and destroy Zoar as well. Thus Lot began to fear the judgment of God upon Zoar so he fled the city. Sin had brought judgment upon Sodom, and Lot\u8217\'92s backsliding and worldly life had caused him to lose everything he had including his family. Now his backsliding caused even more suffering, the suffering of fear\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the fear of more judgment from God.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Backsliding always brings the judgment of God upon a person; consequently, a backsliding believer needs to fear, fear enough to repent and turn back to God.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 b. There was humiliation. Imagine having to live in a cave after being a city official or mayor of one of the leading cities of the world. That was Lot. He had lost everything, including his self-esteem and the respect of others. He was a devastated man: brought low, cast down, crushed, utterly humiliated, shamed, disgraced, and probably confused, confounded, and full of guilt. Lot had fallen to the bottom of the scale of human existence.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Worldliness\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 backsliding\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 will defeat any believer and eventually humiliate him.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 c. There was a bad influence upon children (vv. 31\endash 36). This is a sordid, shameful scene. But it shows the most tragic result of a backslidden life, the awful effect backsliding has upon children. Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s two daughters, living in the cave out in the middle of the mountains, began to worry if they would ever marry and bear children. Thus they plotted the most immoral scheme imaginable: to get their father drunk, have sex with him, and bear children. Note that the older sister carried out the scheme first (v. 33) and then influenced her younger sister to do the same (vv. 34\endash 35). Immoral thoughts and plans, drunkenness and sexual impurity (incest), children misleading children into sin and shame\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 all due to the fact that Lot had lived a worldly and backslidden life before his daughters. True, they were virgins until this event: he had given them some moral training (see v. 8). But he had reared them in a worldly and wicked environment, in the social atmosphere of a city official that, no doubt, included drunkenness, dancing, and other activities that led to loose behavior. Lot himself apparently had loose morals, for there was only one place the daughters could have gotten the wine to make their father drunk: from him. He must have brought the wine out of Sodom when he fled the city. Imagine! Fleeing for your life and being able to save only what you can carry on your back and choosing wine to be one of the few items you save. Lot\u8217\'92s backslidden state was severe indeed. The example he had set before his family through the years was a sorry, pathetic example. No wonder these two young women went astray: all they had ever seen, despite some moral teaching, was an environment that allowed loose living that was socially acceptable to the higher society of business and government leaders.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it\u8221\'94 (Pr. 22:6)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And, ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath: but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord\u8221\'94 (Ep. 6:4)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 d. There was trouble for future generations (vv. 37\endash 38). The two daughters gave birth \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab the older to a son named Moab, who became the father of the Moabite people}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab the younger to a son named Ben-ammi, who became the father of the Ammonite people}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Both of these nations were to become bitter enemies and oppose Israel (the followers of God) in future generations. They eventually\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 down through the ages\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 intermixed with the Arabs as did many of the peoples throughout the Middle East region.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, and that will by no means clear the guilty; visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, and upon the children\u8217\'92s children, unto the third and to the fourth generation\u8221\'94 (Ex. 34:7)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Thou showest lovingkindness unto thousands, and recompensest the iniquity of the fathers into the bosom of their children after them: the Great, the Mighty God, the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1  of hosts, is his name\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Je. 32:18)}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge19.30-38&off=0&ctx=s+(salt+materials).%0a~7+(19:30%E2%80%9338)+Backsli"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 106\endash 107). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24


\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clcbpat5\cellx4000

\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps\cb5\highlight5 Deeper Study}{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5  # 3}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 (19:30\endash 38) }{\f0\fs24\b1\cb5\highlight5 Lot\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Backsliding}{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 : note these facts about Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s journey of backsliding.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\fi360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 1. He started out with the same heritage and environment as Abraham, with the same opportunity as Abraham (Ge. 11:27, 31; 12:1\endash 4).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 a.\tab He was a believer, a righteous man\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the same as Abraham (Ge. 15:6; 2 Pe. 2:7).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 b.\tab He followed Abraham, the example of the righteous, for a while (Ge. 12:1\endash 4).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 c.\tab He moved among and joined the worldly (see Ge. 13:12\endash 13; 14:11\endash 12; 19:1).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 d.\tab He refused to heed the warning and deliverance of God, refused to break from the worldly (see Ge. 14:11\endash 24, esp. 16).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\fi360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 2. He allowed his faith to degenerate, to become carnal.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 a.\tab He acted selfishly (see Ge. 13:5\endash 11, esp. 10\endash 11).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 b.\tab He looked toward worldliness (see Ge. 13:10\endash 11).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 c.\tab He moved among and joined the worldly (see Ge. 13:12\endash 13; 14:11\endash 12; 19:1).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 d.\tab He refused to heed the warning and deliverance of God; refused to break from the worldly (see Ge. 14:11\endash 24, esp. 16).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\fi360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 3. He lacked the courage to break away from the world.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 a.\tab He suffered a vexed spirit because of evil surroundings (2 Pe. 2:8).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 b.\tab He rebuked and attempted to correct evil (see Ge. 19:1\endash 3, 6\endash 9).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 c.\tab He still hesitated and refused to separate from the world (see Ge. 19:1\endash 3, 16, 18\endash 22).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\fi360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb5\highlight5 4. He ended his life in shame and oblivion, never to be heard from again, and he left a shameful heritage and influence for his children (Ge. 19:30\endash 38).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge19.30-38&off=5291&ctx=+name%E2%80%9D+(Je.+32:18).%0a~Deeper+Study+%23+3%0a(19"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 107). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24\cell{
\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf4 \clcbpat5\cellx4000
\row}\pard
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24}