{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 SBL Hebrew;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f5\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 3. }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 know a person}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  carnally, sq. acc.: man subj. Gn 4:1, 17, 25; 24:16; 38:26 (all J), 1 S 1:19; Ju 19:25; 1 K 1:4; woman subj. Gn 19:8 (J), Nu 31:17, 18, 35 (all P), Ju 11:39; }{\f3\fs32\b0\i0 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u1497\'3F\u1465\'3F\u1491\'3F\u1463\'3F\u1506\'3F\u1463\'3F\u1514\'3F \u1502\'3F\u1460\'3F\u1513\'3F\u1456\'3F\u1473\'3F\u1499\'3F\u1463\'3F\u1468\'3F\u1489\'3F \u1494\'3F\u1464\'3F\u1499\'3F\u1464\'3F\u1512\'3F}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Ju 21:11; }{\f3\fs32\b0\i0 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u1500\'3F\u1465\'3F\u1488\'3F \u1497\'3F\u1464\'3F\u1469\'3F\u1491\'3F\u1456\'3F\u1506\'3F\u1464\'3F\u1492\'3F \u1488\'3F\u1460\'3F\u1497\'3F\u1513\'3F\u1473\'3F \u1500\'3F\u1456\'3F\u1502\'3F\u1460\'3F\u1513\'3F\u1456\'3F\u1473\'3F\u1499\'3F\u1463\'3F\u1468\'3F\u1489\'3F \u1494\'3F\u1464\'3F\u1499\'3F\u1464\'3F\u1512\'3F}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  v 12; man subj. and obj. (of sodomy) Gn 19:5 (J), Ju 19:22. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0  Brown, F., Driver, S. R., & Briggs, C. A. (1977). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/bdb?ref=BrownDriverBriggs.BDB+394.1&off=1720&ctx=J)+Dt+33:9+Jb+9:21.+~3.+know+a+person+car"}{\fldrslt\f5\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Enhanced Brown-Driver-Briggs Hebrew and English Lexicon\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 394). Oxford: Clarendon Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f4\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs28\b1 HOMOSEXUAL}{\f0\fs24  \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  a person who is attracted sexually to members of his or her own sex. Homosexual behavior is prohibited in Scripture (Lev. 20:13) and was a major cause of the divine judgment against Sodom and Gomorrah (Gen. 19:4\endash 5, 12\endash 13). The apostle Paul listed homosexuals among \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the unrighteous\u8221\'94 who would not inherit the kingdom of God (1 Cor. 6:9), and declared that God\u8217\'92s wrath stands against such behavior, whether practiced by men or women (Rom. 1:26\endash 27).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0  Youngblood, R. F., Bruce, F. F., & Harrison, R. K., Thomas Nelson Publishers (Eds.). (1995). In \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nibd?hw=Homosexual"}{\fldrslt\f5\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Nelson\loch\af5\hich\af5\dbch\af5\uc1\u8217\'92s new illustrated Bible dictionary\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0 . Nashville, TN: Thomas Nelson, Inc.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f4\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 20\~}{\f0\fs24 But that is not the way you learned Christ!\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 21\~}{\f0\fs24 assuming that you have heard about him and were taught in him, as the truth is in Jesus, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 22\~}{\f0\fs24 to put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 23\~}{\f0\fs24 and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 24\~}{\f0\fs24 and to put on the new self, created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Eph4.20&off=0&ctx=y+kind+of+impurity.+~20%C2%A0But+that+is+not+t"}{\fldrslt\f5\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f4\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Eph 4:20\endash 24). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}}