{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}{\f5\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 Warning Against Worldliness}
\par\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs36\b1\i0 4\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 What causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? Is it not this, that your passions are at war within you? }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 2\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have, because you do not ask. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 3\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 You ask and do not receive, because you ask wrongly, to spend it on your passions. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 4\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 You adulterous people! Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Therefore whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 5\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Or do you suppose it is to no purpose that the Scripture says, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93He yearns jealously over the spirit that he has made to dwell in us\u8221\'94? }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 6\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 7\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 8\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 9\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Be wretched and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 10\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Jas4.1"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Jas 4:1\endash 10). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 But \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93fightings\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93wars\u8221\'94 }{\f5\fs24\b0\i1 are}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  already in evidence among them; and, if covetous zeal goes unrestrained, the danger of actual violence is real. With penetrating insight, then, James provides us with a powerful analysis of human conflict. Verbal argument, private violence, or national conflict\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the cause of them all can be traced back to the wrongful lust to want more than we have, to be envious of and covet what others have, whether it be their position or their possessions.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Moo, D. J. (2000). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/pntcjam?ref=Bible.Jas4.2&off=5814&ctx=killing+each+other.+~But+%E2%80%9Cfightings%E2%80%9D+and+"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The letter of James\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 184). Grand Rapids, MI; Leicester, England: Eerdmans; Apollos.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Proverbs 27:20}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 20}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Sheol and Abaddon are never satisfied, and never satisfied are the eyes of man.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 Romans 5:6}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0 6}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Tt3.5&off=2&ctx=+Savior+appeared%2c+5%C2%A0~he+saved+us%2c+e%EF%BB%BFnot+b"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Tt 3:5). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The life of a follower of Jesus, then, is not to be led in fear of judgment but in hope of a new age. Fear tends to paralyze people rather than to motivate them. Thus, while our author goes to pains to refute the teachings of the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93scoffers,\u8221\'94 his focus is on the new that is coming rather than on the fearfulness of the intermediate judgment. His addressees are to be living the life of the future age no matter how dysfunctional it may seem in this age, for the structures of this age are temporary\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 we will likely be surprised at how quickly they collapse\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 and the structures of the coming age are permanent. Given the massive investment of contemporary Christians in the nationalism, materialism, and pleasure orientation of Western culture, this passage should serve as wake-up call. When the Day comes, one\u8217\'92s retirement fund will not be important, but rather what one has invested in the kingdom of our Sovereign Lord.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Davids, P. H. (2006). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/pntc2ptr?ref=Bible.2Pe3.11&off=4412&ctx=f+concrete+virtues.%0a~The+life+of+a+follow"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The letters of 2 Peter and Jude\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 289). Grand Rapids, MI: William B. Eerdmans Pub. Co.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}}