{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-720\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs28\b1\i0 O.}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0 \tab }{\f1\fs28\b1\i0 Abraham Saw the Promised Son Isaac Born: Rewarded Faith\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 How God Fulfills His Promises, 21:1\endash 7}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (21:1\endash 7) }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Introduction}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 : at last the great day came: the promised son was born. The hope and longing were finally realized. It had been twenty-five years since God had given Abraham the promise of a son, twenty-five long years. Now, the waiting was over. Sarah bore Abraham a son, the promised son, the son from whom kings and nations were to be born and from whom the Savior of the world was to come. God always fulfills His promises. He fulfilled His promise to Abraham, and He will fulfill His promises to us. This is the subject of this great chapter: }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Abraham Saw the Promised Son Isaac Born: Rewarded Faith\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 How God Fulfills His Promises}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , 21:1\endash 7.}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1.\tab To prove Himself, His Word and power: He has the power to do exactly as He has promised (vv. 1\endash 2).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2.\tab To stir obedience and faithfulness to God (vv. 3\endash 5).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 3.\tab To stir joy and rejoicing over God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s power (vv. 6\endash 7).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-7&off=1314&ctx=on+in+his+old+age.%0a%0a~O.+Abraham+Saw+the+P"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 115). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs32\b1\i0 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (21:1\endash 2) }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Word of God\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Promises Of God\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Isaac}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 : How does God fulfill His promises? He proves Himself, His Word and power. God uses His power to do exactly as He has promised. God kept His Word. Note how the Word of God is stressed. God had promised a son to Abraham and Sarah, and He gave them a son. He did exactly what He had promised He would do.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Note another fact as well: the son was born in Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s \u8220\'93old age,\u8221\'94 at the very time appointed or set by God. The birth was a miracle. Abraham and Sarah were both }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 too old}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  to bear children. They were well beyond childbearing years, but God miraculously quickened\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 made alive, rejuvenated\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 their bodies so that they could bear a child. In fact, the very time for the birth was set by God, and the son was born at the very time God had appointed. The birth was controlled by God from start to finish, controlled by His power. God had the power to prove Himself, to fulfill His promise, His Word, to do exactly as He had promised.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . God keeps His Word, His promises, but God sometimes delays His promises just as He did with Abraham. We often need to grow in our faith \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab to learn more endurance and hardness}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab to become stronger and more determined}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab to learn to trust and hope more in God}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \bullet \tab to pray and fellowship more with God}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 There are a multitude of reasons why God may not immediately fulfill His promises in our lives. But two facts are always true:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (1)\tab God is faithful to His promises. God will always do exactly what He promises He will do. He may delay for a while in order to strengthen us or to teach us some lesson. But God is faithful; He will prove Himself and fulfill His promises to us.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93God is faithful, by whom ye were called unto the fellowship of his Son Jesus Christ our Lord\u8221\'94 (1 Co. 1:9)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93But the Lord is faithful, who shall stablish you, and keep you from evil\u8221\'94 (2 Th. 3:3)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93If we believe not, yet he abideth faithful: he cannot deny himself\u8221\'94 (2 Ti. 2:13)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering; for he is faithful that promised\u8221\'94 (He. 10:23)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (2)\tab God is powerful enough to keep His promises. He has the power to do exactly what He says He will do, the power to fulfill His promises in our lives.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93But Jesus beheld [them], and said unto them, With men this is impossible; but with God all things are possible\u8221\'94 (Mt. 19:26)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93For with God nothing shall be impossible\u8221\'94 (Lu. 1:37)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Now to him that is of power to stablish you according to my gospel, and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery, which was kept secret since the world began\u8221\'94 (Ro. 16:25)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Now unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us\u8221\'94 (Ep. 3:20)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Is any thing too hard for the }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\scaps Lord}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 ?\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8221\'94 (Ge. 18:14)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93I know that thou canst do every thing, and that no thought can be withholden from thee\u8221\'94 (Jb. 42:2)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 2}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Abraham and Sarah had to wait twenty-five years to receive the promise of God. Imagine! Twenty-five years. How impatient we so often become before God.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93That ye be not slothful, but followers of them who through faith and patience inherit the promises\u8221\'94 (He. 6:12)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93And so, after he [Abraham] had patiently endured, he obtained the promise\u8221\'94 (He. 6:15)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93For ye have need of patience, that, after ye have done the will of God, ye might receive the promise\u8221\'94 (He. 10:36)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-2&off=0&ctx=%E2%80%99s+power+(vv.+6%E2%80%937).%0a~1+(21:1%E2%80%932)+Word+of+G"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 115\endash 116). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs32\b1\i0 2}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (21:3\endash 5) }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Obedience\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Isaac\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Circumcision}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 : How does God fulfill His promises? He stirs obedience and faithfulness to God. Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s joy can just be imagined. Remember: when God first told Abraham that the time had finally come, the son was now to be born, Abraham fell on his face in worship (Ge. 17:17). He was so full of joy that he burst forth in laughter, a laughter of faith. God was so pleased with this experience of worship and joy that He instructed Abraham to memorialize the event forever in the name of the child. The name }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 Isaac}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  means \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93he laughs,\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93he joys.\u8221\'94 The long wait for a son\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 twenty-five years\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 was over. The son was born. Abraham\u8217\'92s joy must have broken loose in a praise and worship of God beyond expression. But note: it is not Abraham\u8217\'92s joy that is stressed in these verses; in fact, his joy is not even mentioned. What is the focus? Abraham\u8217\'92s }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 obedience to God}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . This is very significant, for God would not have fulfilled His promise to Abraham if Abraham had not been an obedient follower of God. Abraham obeyed God all throughout his life, not perfectly, but consistently and diligently. Therefore, God was able to fulfill His promises in the life of Abraham. Note how clearly Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s obedience is pictured, even at the birth of his son.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He named his son Isaac. This was in }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 obedience to God}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . God had long before told Abraham to name his son Isaac (Ge. 17:19).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He circumcised Isaac when the baby was eight days old. This, too, was in }{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 obedience to God}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . God had instituted the ritual of circumcision with Abraham some years before (Ge. 17:10\endash 14).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Note another fact that is stressed: the miracle of the birth (v. 5). Abraham recognized his dependence upon God: the birth was a miracle. He was 100 years old, well beyond childbearing years. The son was not due to him but to God. God and God alone had given him a son. He was totally dependent upon God, and he owed this blessing\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the blessing of his son\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 to God and God alone.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . We must obey God in order to receive the promises of God. This does not mean that we must be perfect before God can pour out His promises upon us. But it does mean that we have to do what Abraham did: believe God and diligently seek to follow God. It means that we set our hearts upon God, that we seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, that we diligently seek to obey God.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you\u8221\'94 (Mt. 6:33)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven\u8221\'94 (Mt. 7:21)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge21.3-5&off=0&ctx=+crown%E2%80%9D+(Re.+3:11).%0a~2+(21:3%E2%80%935)+Obedience"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 116). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Thought 2}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . God fulfills His promises, always fulfills them.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (1)\tab God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promises never fail.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Blessed be the }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\scaps Lord}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 , that hath given rest unto his people Israel, according to all that he promised: there hath not failed one word of all his good promise, which he promised by the hand of Moses his servant\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8221\'94 (1 K. 8:56)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (2)\tab God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promises are guaranteed because of His omnipotent, unlimited power.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief; but was strong in faith, giving glory to God; and being fully persuaded that, what he had promised, he was able also to perform\u8221\'94 (Ro. 4:20\endash 21)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Now unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us\u8221\'94 (Ep. 3:20)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93For with God nothing shall be impossible\u8221\'94 (Lu. 1:37)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Is any thing too hard for the }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\scaps Lord}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0 ?\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8221\'94 (Ge. 18:14)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (3)\tab God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promises are great and precious.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises: that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust\u8221\'94 (2 Pe. 1:4)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (4)\tab God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promises have one great purpose: to give us eternal life.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93And this is the promise that he hath promised us, even eternal life\u8221\'94 (1 Jn. 2:25)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 (5)\tab God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promises are based upon faith.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Jesus said unto him, If thou canst believe, all things [are] possible to him that believeth\u8221\'94 (Mk. 9:23)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93And the Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye might say unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea; and it should obey you\u8221\'94 (Lu. 17:6)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge21.6-7&off=6804&ctx=+and+demonstrated.1%0a~Thought+2.+God+fulfi"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 118\endash 119). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-720\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs28\b1 P.}{\f0\fs28 \tab }{\f0\fs28\b1 Abraham Sent Away Hagar and Ishmael, the Slavewoman and Her Son: Conquering Faith\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Confronting and Overcoming Conflict, 21:8\endash 21}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (21:8\endash 21) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Introduction}{\f0\fs24 : conflict is always destructive and painful. Conflict destroys }{\f0\fs24\i1 peace}{\f0\fs24  and security, the peace and security \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab of hearts}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab of communities}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab of families}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab of schools}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab of work}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab of nations}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Conflict is painful: it hurts, sometimes mildly, sometimes dangerously. Conflict can range from bumping heads over some issue to conflict and war. It can range from a small disagreement over to locking horns and being divorced from one another. Conflict can arouse a small sense of uneasiness within us or it can rip us apart.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 But note this: we can use conflict to arouse us and stir us to move on and achieve more, or we can allow conflict to destroy us. This is what this passage is all about: confronting and conquering conflict. This is a most interesting story: }{\f0\fs24\i1 Abraham Sent Away Hagar and Ishmael, the Slavewoman and Her Son: Conquering Faith\hich\f2 \emdash \loch\f2 Confronting and Conquering Conflict}{\f0\fs24 , 21:8\endash 21.}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1.\tab The nature of the conflict: much attention was being showered on Isaac (vv. 8\endash 11).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2.\tab The answer to the conflict: God (vv. 12\endash 13).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 3.\tab The results of the conflict (vv. 14\endash 16}{\f0\fs24\super b}{\f0\fs24 ).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 4.\tab The conquest and triumph over the conflict (vv. 16}{\f0\fs24\super c}{\f0\fs24 \endash 21).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Please note: this conflict between Ishmael and Isaac and between their mothers, Hagar and Sarah, is used as an illustration in the New Testament. (See outline and notes\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ga. 4:21\endash 31 for discussion.) The conflict pictures the conflict of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab bondage vs. freedom}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab flesh vs. spirit}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab law vs. grace}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab old religion vs. new religion}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab present day Jerusalem vs. the New Jerusalem, the capital of the new heavens and earth}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab earthly, fleshly inheritance vs. Godly, eternal inheritance\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge21.8-21&off=3013&ctx=the+land+of+Egypt.%0a%0a~P.+Abraham+Sent+Away"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 120\endash 121). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 1}{\f0\fs24  (21:8\endash 11) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Conflict, Cause\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Strife\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Ishmael\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Sarah\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Isaac\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Feast, Weaning}{\f0\fs24 : there was the cause of the conflict. Very simply, sin caused the conflict within Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s family, and sin is usually the cause of conflict among most of us. What happened in Abraham\u8217\'92s family was this: Abraham threw a }{\f0\fs24\i1 great feast}{\f0\fs24  for Isaac when he was weaned from his mother\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s breast. Note the word }{\f0\fs24\i1 great}{\f0\fs24 : it was a great feast. This was apparently a Near East custom of that day when a child reached 2\endash 3 years old. At some point during the feast, Sarah saw Ishmael mocking Isaac: ridiculing, poking fun, being mean-spirited and bitter toward him. Remember, Isaac was just a baby, two or three years old, and Ishmael was sixteen or seventeen years old (see Ge. 16:16; 21:5). Just imagine a young man that old mocking and ridiculing a baby. Moreover, note the word }{\f0\fs24\i1 mocking}{\f0\fs24  (metsachcheq). The Hebrew has the idea of \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93always mocking.\u8221\'94 Ishmael always displayed bitterness and anger toward Isaac; he was always mocking and being mean-spirited to the baby. Why? What would cause Ishmael to be so mean to Isaac? Because Abraham was always }{\f0\fs24\i1 heaping attention}{\f0\fs24  upon Isaac, the attention that Ishmael had once received before Isaac\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s birth. Abraham\u8217\'92s attention was now split two ways, and he was more focused upon the baby, Isaac, than upon Ishmael. Ishmael should have understood: he was old enough to know that the baby was bound to become the focus of attention. He was old enough to understand \u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab that the baby needed more attention}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab that the baby was bound to be a special joy to Abraham because he was born in Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s old age}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab that the baby was the promised child, miraculously given by God}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 But Ishmael refused to accept the baby\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s presence within the family, refused to accept Isaac as }{\f0\fs24\i1 the promised child}{\f0\fs24 . He continuously mocked, adopting a mean-spirited attitude toward the child who was appointed by God to be }{\f0\fs24\i1 the promised son}{\f0\fs24 . And Sarah saw the mockery time and again. Apparently, the ridicule reached a peak at the great feast celebrating Isaac\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s weaning, and Sarah witnessed the ugly scene. It was all she could take, enough was enough, and she boiled over. She demanded that Abraham send away (cast out, drive out, get rid of) the slavewoman and her son, Ishmael.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Ishmael had sinned through his mockery and jealousy and his failure to trust the will and care of God. Now Sarah was sinning by over-reacting. She was demanding a cruel solution to the conflict. She took matters into her own hands instead of seeking God for an answer to the conflict. She was overtaken by a spirit of distrust toward God and of cruelty toward Ishmael and his mother, Hagar. Remember, Hagar had been Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s personal servant for decades. But Sarah was apparently so overtaken with anger that she just ignored God and reacted against Ishmael and Hagar. The effect upon Abraham was devastating, for he loved Ishmael, loved him with all his heart. Abraham was stricken with a heavy heart; he was distressed, not knowing what to do.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Note two facts about conflict and strife:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (1)\tab Conflict is very dangerous.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge21.8-11&off=0&ctx=eternal+inheritance%0a~1+(21:8%E2%80%9311)+Conflict"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 121). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 2}{\f0\fs24  (21:12\endash 13) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Conflict, Answer to}{\f0\fs24 : there was the answer to the conflict. The answer was God. Being forced to send a child away is almost more than any loving parent can bear. Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s demand to get rid of Ishmael was a heavy pressure upon Abraham. But God knew. He knew all about Abraham\u8217\'92s heavy heart and distress, all about his perplexity, just not knowing what to do. No doubt, Abraham prayed and discussed the matter with God, and God heard and cared about Abraham\u8217\'92s need. Therefore, God set about to meet Abraham\u8217\'92s need.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. First, God gave Abraham His Word. God spoke to Abraham, encouraging him and relieving the distress and grief. Note when God spoke to Abraham: at night (v. 14). Apparently, Abraham was doing what we all do when we are under heavy distress: pray. He was either lying in bed or up during the night, praying and thinking the conflict through. And God met him: the Word of God came to Abraham and met his need.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 As for Sarah, she was right. Ishmael needed to be sent away, for his mocking and ridicule was too imbedded in him to change. The conflict would only grow worse. But Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s attitude of cruelty toward Ishmael was wrong, and her failure to seek and trust God for an answer was wrong. She had broken Abraham\u8217\'92s heart and caused heavy distress and grief for him.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 But as noted, God spoke to Abraham, and God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s Word always meets the need of the human heart. God\u8217\'92s Word always relieves our distress and grief, relieves whatever conflict wages within our souls. God\u8217\'92s Word always encourages us: it encouraged Abraham and it encourages us.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 b. Second, God reminded Abraham of His great purpose: Isaac was to be the promised son, the son who was to give rise to the chosen line, the offspring of God. Remember, this refers both to the people of God, those who truly believe and follow after God, and to the promised Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Ishmael was not the line chosen to bring God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s Seed, the Savior, into the world; Isaac was (see Ga. 3:16).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 c. Third, God assured Abraham that the conflict would be resolved. Ishmael would be looked after and richly blessed by God. He would grow into a great nation of people. God would see to it. Note why: not for Ishmael\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sake but for Abraham\u8217\'92s sake. Ishmael\u8217\'92s egotistical, superior attitude over Isaac had apparently become imbedded and extremely sinful. Consequently, God could not act for Ishmael\u8217\'92s sake; God could not sanction Ishmael\u8217\'92s sinful ways by acting in his behalf. But Abraham was a different matter. Abraham loved and followed God; therefore, for Abraham\u8217\'92s sake, God would bless Abraham\u8217\'92s son Ishmael.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The point is this: God knew all about the conflict, all of Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s distress and perplexity, that he did not know what to do, that he did not know how to handle the conflict. Therefore, God met Abraham. Most likely, Abraham was in prayer, crying out for God to help him. And God did.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab God gave Abraham His Word: spoke to Abraham, relieving his distress and telling him what to do (v. 12).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab God reminded Abraham of God\u8217\'92s great purpose (v. 12).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab God assured Abraham that the conflict would be resolved: God would take care of Ishmael and bless him (v. 13).}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s answer to conflict is the same for every generation, for every one of us. No matter what the conflict is \u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab the answer is found in God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s Word. His Word will relieve whatever distress we have and give us the answer to our questions. God\u8217\'92s Word tells us what to do. Our task is to search His Word for the peace we need and for the answers to our questions}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab the answer is found in God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s purpose. We must remind ourselves of God\u8217\'92s purpose both for His people and for the world}
\par\pard\plain \tx1440\li1440\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab the answer is found in God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s assurance of blessing. No matter what the solution to the conflict may be, God will take care of us and our needs\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 if we will trust and believe God, just as Abraham did\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge21.12-13&off=0&ctx=o+harm%E2%80%9D+(Pr.+3:30).%0a~2+(21:12%E2%80%9313)+Conflic"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 121\endash 122). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 3}{\f0\fs24  (21:14\endash 16}{\f0\fs24\super b}{\f0\fs24 ) Conflict, Results: there were the results of the conflict. The results were devastating.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. There were the broken hearts, the separation, and divorce (v. 14). The conflict was deeply imbedded within Ishmael\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s heart, apparently so imbedded that he would never change. God knew this, so the only way the conflict could ever be resolved was for Ishmael and Hagar, his mother, to be sent away.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Just picture the scene as Abraham arose early in the morning, taking bread and water to Hagar. There was bound to be tenderness, warmth, love, and brokenness as Abraham set the two leather straps over the shoulders of Hagar and Ishmael and sent them away. The }{\f0\fs24\i1 piercing pain and hurt}{\f0\fs24  must have been almost unbearable.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . The results of conflict are often devastating. Many have had their hearts broken because of conflict, conflict that led to \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab separation}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab divorce}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab the loss of a loved one}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 b. There was the wandering about, being lost, not knowing where to go nor what to do next (v. 14}{\f0\fs24\super b}{\f0\fs24 ). Scripture does not say where Hagar was heading, but she was probably traveling back home to Egypt (Ge. 16:1). For some reason, she lost her way and began to wander all about. She was at a loss, not knowing where to go or what to do next, all because of the conflict.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Note how Hagar\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s experience pictures the experience of so many persons. So many are wandering about in the world, lost, not knowing where to go or what to do next\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 all because some conflict led to \u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab separation}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab divorce}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab the loss of a loved one}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 So many persons are lost out in the desert of the world, all alone or else with no one but a child. Just think of the single mothers and fathers, the heavy pressure of raising children all alone. The loneliness and desperation of the situation are often almost unbearable.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 c. There was the exhaustion, hopelessness, and threat of death (vv. 15\endash 16). Hagar and Ishmael used up all their provisions. There was no more bread and not even any more water left. They were so exhausted that they could go no farther. Note that Ishmael, the sixteen or seventeen year old young man, had apparently fainted from thirst and exhaustion. Hagar pulled him over under a bush and went off and sat down about a bow shot away. There was no more hope: the situation was now beyond repair; Hagar could do no more. She just could not bear watching him die.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Think of the people all over the world who \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab are totally exhausted}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab have no food or water}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab are hopeless}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab face the threat of death}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Why? All because of conflict, the conflict that led to separation, divorce, war, or some other devastating result. The results of conflict are destructive, unending in the toll they take upon human life.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge21.14-16b&off=0&ctx=just+as+Abraham+did%0a~3+(21:14%E2%80%9316%EF%BB%BFb)+Confl"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 122\endash 123). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 4}{\f0\fs24  (21:16}{\f0\fs24\super c}{\f0\fs24 \endash 21) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Conflict, Conquest of\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Ishmael}{\f0\fs24 : there was the conquest or triumph over the conflict. Seven things now happened that clearly show us how to conquer and triumph over conflict.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. Hagar wept bitterly and lifted up her voice in prayer. To }{\f0\fs24\i1 lift up one\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s voice}{\f0\fs24  suggests prayer. Hagar and Ishmael would soon die, all because of the conflict that raged within the soul of Ishmael. Hagar had reached the end of her strength, done all she could. She simply could do no more, not within her own strength. Sitting there, she wept bitterly and did the only thing she could do: lifted up her voice and cried out to God in prayer.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Too often, this is the position we have to be in before we will cry out to God: at the end of our rope, no strength, no way to do anything within ourselves.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Nevertheless, God loves us and cares for us. We must, therefore, cry out to God, whether early or late, whether facing mild or desperate need.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 b. Hagar listened to the Word of God and thought over her problem (v. 17}{\f0\fs24\super a}{\f0\fs24 ). God heard Hagar\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s prayer and spoke to her out of heaven. God gave Hagar }{\f0\fs24\i1 His Word}{\f0\fs24  to meet her need. Note what God did:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He stirred her to think about her problem. \u8220\'93What is the problem, Hagar?\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . We have the permanent Word of God. When we face problems and crises, we desperately need to go to God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s Word for guidance, crying out to Him for help and direction. Note also, we need to do what God was stirring Hagar to do: think through the problem facing us. If we sincerely seek God in prayer and in His Word, thinking through the problem to the best of our ability, God will help us. We will be able to conquer and triumph over all conflicts, problems, and crises.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 c. Ishmael lifted up his voice and cried out to God, apparently asking for forgiveness (v. 17}{\f0\fs24\super c}{\f0\fs24 ). Again, }{\f0\fs24\i1 lifting up one\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s voice}{\f0\fs24  suggests prayer. Note, God said twice that He had heard the voice of Ishmael. Apparently Ishmael was also praying, weeping, and crying out to God. Most likely, he was asking God for forgiveness, knowing that it was his mocking and ridicule that had brought him and his mother to the point of death.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . God stresses the fact that He heard }{\f0\fs24\i1 the voice}{\f0\fs24  (Hebrew) of Ishmael. God says this two times. This points out the utter necessity of repentance, of crying out for God to forgive our sins when we have done wrong. Then and only then does God hear us.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge21.16c-21&off=0&ctx=ssion%E2%80%9D+(Pr.+29:22).%0a~4+(21:16%EF%BB%BFc%E2%80%9321)+Confl"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 123). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24}