{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs28\b1 Sermon Theme and Goal}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 We formulated the textual theme as, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Rejoice in the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faithfulness in fulfilling his promise by miraculously calling Isaac/Israel into existence.\u8221\'94 The context of the Old and New Testaments shows that the promise of a child and ultimately \u8220\'93a multitude of nations\u8221\'94 (17:5, 16) finds further fulfillment in the birth of Jacob, in the birth of the nation of Israel, finally in Israel\u8217\'92s Messiah, Jesus Christ, who sends his disciples out to \u8220\'93make disciples of all nations\u8221\'94 (Matt 28:19) and, ultimately, in Jesus\u8217\'92 second coming when \u8220\'93the nations will walk\u8221\'94 by God\u8217\'92s light (Rev 21:23\endash 24). In order to encompass this context as well as the original message, we can formulate the sermon theme as, }{\f0\fs24\i1 Rejoice in the }{\f0\fs24\i1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faithfulness in fulfilling his promise by miraculously calling his people (Isaac/Israel/the church) into existence}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The narrator\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s goal we formulated as, \u8220\'93to encourage Israel to rejoice in the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faithfulness which miraculously called them into existence as the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s special people.\u8221\'94 Similarly, our goal in preaching this narrative can be, }{\f0\fs24\i1 to encourage the church to rejoice in the }{\f0\fs24\i1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faithfulness which miraculously called them into existence as the }{\f0\fs24\i1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s special people}{\f0\fs24 . This particular goal implies that the need addressed in this sermon is our lack of reflection on and joy in the miracle of the church and our membership in it.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Greidanus, S. (2007). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/prchngchrstgnss?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-7&off=15181"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Preaching Christ from Genesis: Foundations for Expository Sermons\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 186\endash 187). Grand Rapids, MI; Cambridge, U.K.: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs28\b1 Scripture Readings}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Since this narrative from promise to initial fulfillment covers ten chapters, one of the challenges is to select an appropriate number of passages for Scripture reading. I suggest that one read passages about God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promises to Abraham and Sarah }{\f0\fs24\i1 before}{\f0\fs24  the sermon but save the passage on the fulfillment, Genesis 21:1\endash 7, for the sermon itself. This will enhance the possibility of capturing in the sermon some of the tension of this lengthy narrative. For example, before preaching the sermon one can read Genesis 11:27\endash 30; 12:1\endash 4a; and 15:1\endash 6, and ask the people to keep their Bibles open at Genesis. In the sermon itself briefly explain these passages of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise of a child, even many descendants, and then continue quoting and explaining Genesis 16:1\endash 4a; 17:15\endash 19; 18:9\endash 15; and perhaps 20:2, building up the tension until the resolution in Genesis 21:1\endash 7.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Greidanus, S. (2007). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/prchngchrstgnss?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-7&off=16935"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Preaching Christ from Genesis: Foundations for Expository Sermons\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 187). Grand Rapids, MI; Cambridge, U.K.: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb360\qc\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs28\b1 Sermon Exposition}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Given the sermon goal and need, the introduction can illustrate that many people take membership in the church of Jesus Christ for granted or even consider it a burden. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Israel, too, frequently failed to appreciate the miracle of belonging to God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s covenant people. And yet the existence of Israel was a miracle of God. Abram was seventy-five years old when God promised to bless him and make of him a great nation (12:2). But the narrator has just informed us that Abram\u8217\'92s wife Sarai \u8220\'93was barren; she had no child\u8221\'94 (11:30). How can God make a great nation of Abram when his wife is infertile?}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 After many years of waiting, Abram complained to God. We read in Genesis 15:2\endash 5, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Abram said, \u8216\'91O Lord }{\f0\fs24\scaps God}{\f0\fs24 , what will you give me, for I continue childless, and the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus?\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 And Abram said, \u8216\'91You have given me no offspring [seed], and so a slave born in my house is to be my heir.\u8217\'92 But the word of the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  came to him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91This man shall not be your heir; no one but your very own issue shall be your heir.\u8217\'92 He brought him outside and said, \u8216\'91Look toward heaven and count the stars, if you are able to count them.\u8217\'92 Then he said to him, \u8216\'91So shall your descendants be.\u8217\'92\~\u8221\'94 Three times now the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  has repeated his promise to Abram on ever grander scale: in Genesis 12:2, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I will make of you a great nation\u8221\'94; in Genesis 13:16, \u8220\'93I will make your offspring [seed] like the dust of the earth\u8221\'94; in Genesis 15:5, Your descendants will be like the stars in the sky.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Greidanus, S. (2007). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/prchngchrstgnss?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-7&off=19537"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Preaching Christ from Genesis: Foundations for Expository Sermons\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 187\endash 188). Grand Rapids, MI; Cambridge, U.K.: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Still Abram and Sarai received no children. And it is becoming more and more unlikely that they will get children. Abram is now eighty-five years old and Sarai seventy-five. So Sarai comes up with an alternative plan. The }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  had promised Abram many descendants, but he had never said explicitly that this would be with his wife Sarai. In that culture, if a wife was unable to have children, the custom was for the husband to produce children with his wife\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s slave-girl. In chapter 16:2 we read that Sarai says to Abram, \u8220\'93You see that the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  has prevented me from bearing children; go into my slave-girl; it may be that I shall obtain children by her.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 This must have been an incredibly difficult step for Sarai, but it seemed that this was the only way for her to get children. And Abram agreed. So Sarai gave Hagar, her slave-girl, to Abram \u8220\'93as a wife\u8221\'94 (16:3). The plan worked: Hagar became pregnant, and, as we read in verse 15, \u8220\'93Hagar bore Abram a son; and Abram named his son, whom Hagar bore, Ishmael.\u8221\'94 The narrator adds, \u8220\'93Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore him Ishmael.\u8221\'94 Just in the nick of time did they resort to this plan. Abram had a son in his old age. The tension in the narrative is resolved. The }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  had fulfilled his promise.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 For thirteen years Abram and Sarai seem to have accepted the idea that Ishmael was the promised son. Abram, at least, seems to have been content with that thought (see 17:18). But then the suspense starts all over again. We read in chapter 17:1, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93When Abram was ninety-nine years old, the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  appeared to him.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 On this occasion the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  for the first time specifically includes Sarai in his promise of children. God changes Sarai\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s name to Sarah and says to Abraham, verse 16, \u8220\'93I will bless her, and moreover I will give you a son }{\f0\fs24\i1 by her}{\f0\fs24 .\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 Abraham cannot believe his ears. A son by Sarah who now is ninety years old? And he almost a hundred! We read in verse 17, \u8220\'93Then Abraham fell on his face and }{\f0\fs24\i1 laughed}{\f0\fs24 , and said to himself, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Can a child be born to a man who is a hundred years old? Can Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear a child?\u8217\'92\~\u8221\'94 It is the laughter of disbelief! It is now impossible for Abraham and Sarah to have children of their own. Abraham pleads with God (v. 18), \u8220\'93O that Ishmael might live in your sight!\u8221\'94 But God replies, \u8220\'93No, but your wife Sarah shall bear you a son, and you shall name him Isaac.\u8221\'94 The name Isaac means \u8220\'93he laughs.\u8221\'94 The very name of the promised son will remind Abraham and later Israel that Abraham laughed in disbelief of God\u8217\'92s promise. It is simply impossible for a hundred-year-old man and his barren, ninety-year-old wife to conceive and have a child.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Greidanus, S. (2007). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/prchngchrstgnss?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-7&off=19677&ctx=e+stars+in+the+sky.%0a~Still+Abram+and+Sara"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Preaching Christ from Genesis: Foundations for Expository Sermons\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 188\endash 189). Grand Rapids, MI; Cambridge, U.K.: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 In chapter 18 the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  appears to Abraham again and repeats the promise. Verse 10, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I will surely return to you in due season, and your wife Sarah shall have a son.\u8221\'94 Sarah is in the tent and overhears this comment. It seems that this is the first time she hears about receiving her own son, for we read in verse 12, \u8220\'93So Sarah }{\f0\fs24\i1 laughed}{\f0\fs24  to herself, saying, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91After I have grown old, and my husband is old, shall I have pleasure?\u8217\'92\~\u8221\'94 Sarah\u8217\'92s language is quite crude: she describes herself literally as being \u8220\'93worn out\u8221\'94 (TNIV), like clothing ready to be discarded (cf. Josh 9:13), and as incapable of sensual pleasure. The }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  asks Abraham in verse 13, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Why did Sarah laugh, and say, \u8216\'91Shall I indeed bear a child, now that I am old?\u8217\'92 Is anything too wonderful for the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 ? At the set time I will return to you, in due season, and Sarah shall have a son.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 But Sarah denies her disbelief. She says, \u8220\'93\~\u8216\'91I did not laugh\u8217\'92; for she was afraid.\u8221\'94 The }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  responds, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Oh yes, you did laugh.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 First Abraham laughed in disbelief, and now Sarah laughs in disbelief. Sarah laughs at the sheer impossibility of her having a child. The }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  responds to this laughter of disbelief with the question, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Is anything too wonderful for the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 ?\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 An important question that we will need to reflect on later. But here the narrator emphasizes Sarah\u8217\'92s laughter by repeating the word four times. First he tells us in verse 12 that \u8220\'93Sarah laughed.\u8221\'94 Next the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  asks (v. 13), \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Why did Sarah laugh?\u8221\'94 Then Sarah denies it, saying (v. 15), \u8220\'93I did not laugh\u8221\'94; to which the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  responds, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Oh yes, you did laugh.\u8221\'94 The point is that God causes this laughter of disbelief because his promise of a child to a couple \u8220\'93as good as dead\u8221\'94 (Rom 4:19) is really incredible!\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Greidanus, S. (2007). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/prchngchrstgnss?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-7&off=22329&ctx=e+and+have+a+child.%0a~In+chapter+18+the+Lo"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Preaching Christ from Genesis: Foundations for Expository Sermons\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 189). Grand Rapids, MI; Cambridge, U.K.: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The narrator leaves us hanging there with the laughter of disbelief ringing in our ears. He moves on to other stories: God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s intent to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah (18:16\endash 33), the depravity of Sodom (19:1\endash 11), the angels saving Lot and his daughters from the destruction of Sodom (19:12\endash 29), and Lot\u8217\'92s incest with his daughters (19:30\endash 38). The overarching narrative of Abraham and Sarah receiving the promised child is picked up again in chapter 20 and reaches a climax when Abraham in Gerar (near Gaza) again (see 12:13) passes off Sarah as his sister. So \u8220\'93King Abimelech of Gerar sent and took Sarah\u8221\'94 (20:2). Abraham is risking the mother of the promised child in the harem of Abimelech. Kidner comments, \u8220\'93On the brink of Isaac\u8217\'92s birth-story here is the very Promise put in jeopardy, traded away for personal safety. If it is ever to be fulfilled, it will owe very little to man. Morally as well as physically, it will clearly have to be achieved by the grace of God.\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\super 6}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\super
\par\plain \f0\fs24\super
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Finally, in chapter 21 we read of God fulfilling his promise to Abraham and Sarah. Verse 1,}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  dealt with Sarah as he had said,}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 and the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  did for Sarah as he had promised.}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The NRSV translates the Hebrew word }{\f0\fs24\i1 p\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u257\'61qad}{\f0\fs24  as, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  }{\f0\fs24\i1 dealt with}{\f0\fs24  Sarah,\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 while the TNIV translates, \u8220\'93Now the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  }{\f0\fs24\i1 was gracious to}{\f0\fs24  Sarah.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 The same word is also used in Genesis 50:24\endash 25 to describe God }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93coming to\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24  Israel to bring them up out of Egypt to the Promised Land. So the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  here \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93comes to\u8221\'94 or \u8220\'93visits\u8221\'94 Sarah to fulfill his promise: \u8220\'93as he had said, \u8230\'85 as he had promised.\u8221\'94 The birth of a son for Sarah was \u8220\'93predicted twice (17:16\endash 21; 18:10\endash 15), and here the fulfillment of the promises is mentioned twice.\u8221\'94 Calvin observes that there is \u8220\'93great emphasis in the repetition.\u8230\'85 For he thus retains his readers, as by laying his hand upon them, that they may pause in the consideration of so great a miracle.\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24\super 9}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\super
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Verse 2, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Sarah conceived and bore Abraham a son in his old age, at the time of which God had spoken to him.\u8221\'94 This is the third time the narrator reminds us of God\u8217\'92s prior word: \u8220\'93as he [the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 ] had said,\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93as he had promised,\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93at the time of which God had spoken.\u8217\'92\~\u8221\'94 Sailhamer comments, \u8220\'93The plan not only came about, but, more importantly, it happened as it was announced.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Greidanus, S. (2007). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/prchngchrstgnss?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-7&off=24059&ctx=+really+incredible!%0a~The+narrator+leaves+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Preaching Christ from Genesis: Foundations for Expository Sermons\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 189\endash 190). Grand Rapids, MI; Cambridge, U.K.: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Thus the narrative calls attention to God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faithfulness to his word and to his careful attention to the details of his plan.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 In verse 3 we read that \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Abraham gave the name Isaac to his son whom Sarah bore him. And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight days old, as God had commanded him.\u8221\'94 Significantly, Abraham does not get a line thanking God for Isaac, but, as before (12:4), he obeys God to the letter. God had said, \u8220\'93You shall name him Isaac\u8221\'94 (17:19), and Abraham names his son Isaac. God had said, \u8220\'93Every male among you shall be circumcised when he is eight days old\u8221\'94 (17:12), and Abraham circumcises Isaac \u8220\'93when he was eight days old.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The Hebrew in verse 3 reads literally, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And Abraham called the name of his son }{\f0\fs24\i1 which was born to him}{\f0\fs24 , whom Sarah had born to him, Isaac.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 Wenham observes, \u8220\'93Comparison with 16:15 shows that \u8216\'91which was born to him\u8217\'92 is unnecessary. But the repetition again serves to drive home the miraculous nature of the birth of a son to Sarah.\u8221\'94 And to Abraham, we might add. For the additional phrase results in the repetition of \u8220\'93born to }{\f0\fs24\i1 him}{\f0\fs24 .\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 For good measure the narrator adds in verse 5, \u8220\'93Abraham was a hundred years old when his son Isaac was born to him.\u8221\'94 Isaac is indeed a child who could only have been called into being by the miraculous power of the faithful }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Greidanus, S. (2007). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/prchngchrstgnss?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-7&off=26308&ctx=s+it+was+announced.%0a~Thus+the+narrative+c"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Preaching Christ from Genesis: Foundations for Expository Sermons\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 191). Grand Rapids, MI; Cambridge, U.K.: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Interestingly, whereas Abram does not get a single line in this passage, it concludes with a substantial song of praise by Sarah. Verse 6, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Now Sarah said, God has brought laughter for me; everyone who hears will laugh with me.\u8221\'94 God has turned the laughter of disbelief into the laughter of joy. Every time she will call Isaac, she will be reminded of her laughter of disbelief. The }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  had asked, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Is anything too wonderful for the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 ?\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (18:14). Well, that depends on how great your God is. Now Sarah knows: nothing is too wonderful for the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 ! He who created the universe with his word is able to fulfill his promise, no matter how impossible it seems. Jesus also had to remind his disciples, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93For God all things are possible\u8221\'94 (Matt 19:26).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 With the miraculous fulfillment of his promise, the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  has turned Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s laughter of disbelief into genuine laughter. Sarah says, \u8220\'93Everyone who hears will laugh with me.\u8221\'94 Certainly her household will laugh with her, but also later Israel. For in a real sense Israel was born that day. Had Isaac not been born, there would have been no Israel. Israel owed its existence to the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faithfulness in miraculously calling Isaac into existence generations earlier. So when Israel heard this story, they were expected to laugh with Sarah, to rejoice in the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faithfulness which miraculously called them into existence. And also to rejoice in the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faithfulness which miraculously sustained them in their trials, even bringing a remnant back from exile. Psalm 126:1\endash 2 reflects this joy which echoes Sarah\u8217\'92s laughter:}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 When the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  restored the fortunes of Zion,}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 we were like those who dream.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Then our mouth was filled with }{\f0\fs24\i1 laughter}{\f0\fs24 ,}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 and our tongue with shouts of joy;}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 then it was said among the nations,}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  has done great things for them.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Greidanus, S. (2007). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/prchngchrstgnss?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-7&off=27631&ctx=+the+faithful+Lord.%0a~Interestingly%2c+where"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Preaching Christ from Genesis: Foundations for Expository Sermons\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 191\endash 192). Grand Rapids, MI; Cambridge, U.K.: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Like Israel, we also are expected to laugh with Sarah, to rejoice in the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faithfulness which miraculously, throughout the ages, calls his people into existence.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Sarah concludes her praise song with a rhetorical question in verse 7. She asks, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Who would ever have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? Yet I have borne him a son in his old age.\u8221\'94 Who would ever have said it? Not Abraham. Certainly not Sarah. No one would have said it, for it is impossible for a ninety-year-old woman to nurse children. Yet the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  made the impossible possible. He fulfilled his promise: Isaac was born. The son of the covenant was born, the first of a long line of descendants. God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s covenant people began to multiply on earth. First it was one son, later a nation. And then Isaiah (9:6) would prophesy,}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 For a child has been born for us,}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a son given to us;}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 authority rests upon his shoulders;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 and he is named Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God,}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Can God fulfill this promise of a divine son? \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Is anything too wonderful for the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 ?\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Jesus\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 birth of the virgin Mary was even more miraculous than Isaac\u8217\'92s birth of ninety-year-old Sarah. At Jesus\u8217\'92 birth, too, there was much laughter. Mary sang her song of praise even before Jesus\u8217\'92 birth (Luke 1:46\endash 55).}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93My soul magnifies the Lord,}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 and my spirit }{\f0\fs24\i1 rejoices}{\f0\fs24  in God my Savior,}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 for he has looked with favor on the lowliness of his servant.}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Surely, from now on all generations will call me blessed;}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 for }{\f0\fs24\i1 the Mighty One has done great things for me.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 He has helped his servant Israel,}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 in remembrance of his mercy,}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\i1 according to the promise he made to our ancestors}{\f0\fs24 ,}
\par\pard\plain \li1080\fi-360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\i1 to Abraham}{\f0\fs24  and to his descendants forever.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Greidanus, S. (2007). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/prchngchrstgnss?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-7&off=29434&ctx=t+things+for+them.%E2%80%9D%0a~Like+Israel%2c+we+also"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Preaching Christ from Genesis: Foundations for Expository Sermons\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 192\endash 193). Grand Rapids, MI; Cambridge, U.K.: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 At Jesus\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 birth the angels sang \u8220\'93Glory to God\u8221\'94 and the shepherds rejoiced as well as Simeon, Anna, the wise men from the East, and many others. Yet this child was not named Isaac, laughter. God commanded Joseph, \u8220\'93You are to name him Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins\u8221\'94 (Matt 1:21). The name \u8220\'93Jesus,\u8221\'94 Yahweh saves, is even more cause for rejoicing than the name \u8220\'93Isaac.\u8221\'94}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Jesus brought joy by preaching the good news of the kingdom of God, by healing people of their diseases, but especially by giving his life as a ransom for many. In a dispute with the Jews, Jesus said to them, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Your ancestor Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day; he saw it and was glad\u8221\'94 (John 8:56). Jesus was referring to Isaac\u8217\'92s birth and the laughter it brought about. How did Abraham see Jesus\u8217\'92 day in Isaac\u8217\'92s birth? Isaac\u8217\'92s birth was in fulfillment of God\u8217\'92s covenant promise to Abraham that he would have a child with Sarah. But God\u8217\'92s promise was for much more than a child; God promised to make Abraham the \u8220\'93father of a multitude of }{\f0\fs24\i1 nations}{\f0\fs24 .\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 This promise was initially fulfilled in the birth of Isaac, but it reached for its fulfillment far beyond Isaac and the nation of Israel to Abraham\u8217\'92s son Jesus Christ, who would command his disciples to \u8220\'93make disciples of }{\f0\fs24\i1 all nations}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 and poured out his Spirit to enable them to do so (see Acts 2). In the birth of Isaac, Abraham saw Jesus\u8217\'92 day, for he saw the initial fulfillment of God\u8217\'92s promise to make him the \u8220\'93father of a multitude of nations.\u8221\'94\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Greidanus, S. (2007). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/prchngchrstgnss?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-7&off=31120&ctx=scendants+forever.%E2%80%9D%0a~At+Jesus%E2%80%99+birth+the+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Preaching Christ from Genesis: Foundations for Expository Sermons\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 193). Grand Rapids, MI; Cambridge, U.K.: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 When the New Testament church was born at Pentecost, some three thousand persons were baptized, joining the church of Jesus Christ, rejoicing and }{\f0\fs24\i1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93praising God\u8221\'94}{\f0\fs24  (Acts 2:47). Later, when Paul and Barnabas preached in Antioch, they recalled their mission: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The Lord has commanded us, saying, \u8216\'91I have set you to be a light for the Gentiles, so that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth.\u8217\'92\~\u8221\'94 Luke comments, \u8220\'93When the Gentiles heard this, }{\f0\fs24\i1 they were glad and praised the word of the Lord}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Acts 13:47\endash 48). What an awesome work God has done in grafting Gentiles into the stem of Abraham, in miraculously calling into existence the church of Jesus Christ as his special people.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 How thankful we should be that God gave \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93laughter\u8221\'94 to Abraham and Sarah and that he gave great joy to the virgin Mary. How we should rejoice that \u8220\'93God so loved the world that he gave his only Son, so that everyone who believes in him may not perish but may have eternal life\u8221\'94 (John 3:16). Abraham saw Jesus\u8217\'92 day and was glad; we have seen Jesus\u8217\'92 day and should be }{\f0\fs24\i1 glad!}{\f0\fs24  Paul exhorts the church in Colossae, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly \u8230\'85; and with }{\f0\fs24\i1 gratitude}{\f0\fs24  in your hearts sing psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs to God. And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, }{\f0\fs24\i1 giving thanks}{\f0\fs24  to God the Father through him\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Col 3:16\endash 17).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Greidanus, S. (2007). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/prchngchrstgnss?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-7&off=32609&ctx=titude+of+nations.%E2%80%9D%0a~When+the+New+Testame"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Preaching Christ from Genesis: Foundations for Expository Sermons\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 193). Grand Rapids, MI; Cambridge, U.K.: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24}