{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sa160\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs32 Setting the Stage}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b1 Theme.}{\f0\fs24  We have all experienced tests of our faith\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 situations that require us to trust that God will provide. In these times, the question becomes: How do we respond? Do we allow fear and doubt to control us, or do we trust God with an extreme faith?}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Abraham experienced many tests of faith in his life. At times, he responded obediently and trusted in God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promises. Other times, however, he responded out of fear or tried to take matters into his own hands. In Genesis 22, Abraham received one final extreme test of his faith\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 a test that came directly from God (Gen 22:1).}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs22\b1 Literary Context.}{\f0\fs24  After years of uncertainty, the promised birth finally happened. Sarah welcomed a son, whom Abraham named Isaac (Gen 21:2\endash 3). Abraham circumcised him when he was eight days old, just as God had commanded (Gen 21:4; see 17:12). The pieces of the promise finally fell into place: Abraham had the promised son through Sarah, just as God said. Emphasizing Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s inability to bear children (Gen 17:17; 18:11\endash 12) and Abraham\u8217\'92s old age, the Bible testifies that God truly worked a miracle.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The various mentions of Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s age anchor the progression of events in real time and show the accuracy of God\u8217\'92s promise. When Abraham was 99 years old (Gen 17:1, 24), God twice stated that He would give Abraham and Sarah a son within the year (Gen 17:21; 18:14). Sarah had Isaac when Abraham was 100 years old (Gen 21:5), showing that God was true to His word.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The mentions of Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s age also indicate how long he had to wait for God to fulfill His promise. Abraham was 75 years old when God first called him to leave Ur (Gen 12:4), 86 years old when Ishmael was born (Gen 16:16), and 100 years old when Isaac was finally born (Gen 21:5). Abraham waited 25 years for God to take the first step in fulfilling His promise to make him \u8220\'93a great nation\u8221\'94 (Gen 12:2). During this period, Abraham faced many situations that tested his faith. Now, after God\u8217\'92s promise to provide an heir had finally been fulfilled, Abraham would face his greatest test of faith yet.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Grigoni, M. R., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/csabraham?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-21&off=1153"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Abraham: Following God\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Ge 21:1\endash 22:24). Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 If this were merely a story about God fulfilling His promise, it could end here with Abraham and Sarah finally receiving the son and heir they had always hoped for. But the story of Abraham is also about his faith: the faith that drove him to leave his country at God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s command (Gen 12:4), the faith that led him to take up arms against mighty kings who kidnapped his kin (Gen 14:14\endash 15), the faith that enabled him to circumcise every male in his household (Gen 17:23\endash 27), and the faith that empowered him to bargain with God over the fate of the righteous in a wicked city (Gen 18:22\endash 33). Abraham\u8217\'92s resolve had been tested repeatedly, and now it would be tested again\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 especially when it came to his relationships with his two sons.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  Grigoni, M. R., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/csabraham?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-21&off=5867&ctx=er+the+impossible.%0a%0a~If+this+were+merely+"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Abraham: Following God\loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  (Ge 21:1\endash 22:24). Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}}