{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 The Birth of Isaac}
\par\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs36\b1\i0 21\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  visited Sarah as he had said, and the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  did to Sarah as he had promised. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 2\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 And Sarah conceived and bore Abraham a son in his old age at the time of which God had spoken to him. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 3\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abraham called the name of his son who was born to him, whom Sarah bore him, Isaac. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 4\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight days old, as God had commanded him. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 5\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abraham was a hundred years old when his son Isaac was born to him. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 6\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 And Sarah said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93God has made laughter for me; everyone who hears will laugh over me.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 7\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 And she said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? Yet I have borne him a son in his old age.\u8221\'94 \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ge21.1"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ge 21:1\endash 7). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1\i0 God Protects Hagar and Ishmael}
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 8\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 And the child grew and was weaned. And Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 9\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 But Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, whom she had borne to Abraham, laughing. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 10\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 So she said to Abraham, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Cast out this slave woman with her son, for the son of this slave woman shall not be heir with my son Isaac.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 11\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 And the thing was very displeasing to Abraham on account of his son. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 12\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 But God said to Abraham, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Be not displeased because of the boy and because of your slave woman. Whatever Sarah says to you, do as she tells you, for through Isaac shall your offspring be named. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 13\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 And I will make a nation of the son of the slave woman also, because he is your offspring.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 14\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 So Abraham rose early in the morning and took bread and a skin of water and gave it to Hagar, putting it on her shoulder, along with the child, and sent her away. And she departed and wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 15\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 When the water in the skin was gone, she put the child under one of the bushes. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 16\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Then she went and sat down opposite him a good way off, about the distance of a bowshot, for she said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Let me not look on the death of the child.\u8221\'94 And as she sat opposite him, she lifted up her voice and wept. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 17\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 And God heard the voice of the boy, and the angel of God called to Hagar from heaven and said to her, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93What troubles you, Hagar? Fear not, for God has heard the voice of the boy where he is. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 18\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Up! Lift up the boy, and hold him fast with your hand, for I will make him into a great nation.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 19\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Then God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water. And she went and filled the skin with water and gave the boy a drink. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 20\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 And God was with the boy, and he grew up. He lived in the wilderness and became an expert with the bow. }{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super 21\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 He lived in the wilderness of Paran, and his mother took a wife for him from the land of Egypt. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ge21.8&off=0&ctx=n+in+his+old+age.%E2%80%9D+%0a~God+Protects+Hagar+a"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ge 21:8\endash 21). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}