{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs36\b1\i0 42\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Then Job answered the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  and said: }
\par\pard\plain \tqr\tx200\tx400\li960\fi-960\sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \tab }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 2\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \tab \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I know that you can do all things, }
\par\pard\plain \li960\fi-320\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 and that no purpose of yours can be thwarted.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Job42.1&off=32&ctx=sion+and+Repentance%0a~42%C2%A0Then+Job+answered"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Job 42:1\endash 2). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 James 2:18\endash 26}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 18}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 But someone will say, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93You have faith and I have works.\u8221\'94 Show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 19}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 You believe that God is one; you do well. Even the demons believe\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 and shudder! }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 20}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Do you want to be shown, you foolish person, that faith apart from works is useless? }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 21}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up his son Isaac on the altar? }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 22}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 You see that faith was active along with his works, and faith was completed by his works; }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 23}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 and the Scripture was fulfilled that says, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness\u8221\'94\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 and he was called a friend of God. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 24}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 You see that a person is justified by works and not by faith alone. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 25}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 And in the same way was not also Rahab the prostitute justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out by another way? }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 26}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works is dead.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Hebrews 11:6}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 6}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 And without faith it is impossible to please him, for whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Christ might be given to those who believe. }
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 23\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Now before faith came, we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 24\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 So then, the law was our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be justified by faith. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 25\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian, }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 26\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 27\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 28\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. }{\f2\fs24\b1\i0\super 29\~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 And if you are Christ\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s, then you are Abraham\u8217\'92s offspring, heirs according to promise. }
\par\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ga3.22&off=96&ctx=e+by+faith+in+Jesus+~Christ+might+be+give"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 \{\\Scrv_fn=The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ga 3:22\endash 4:1). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24\b1\super 11\~}{\f0\fs24 Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness, }{\f2\fs24\b1\super 12\~}{\f0\fs24 waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be set on fire and dissolved, and the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn! }{\f2\fs24\b1\super 13\~}{\f0\fs24 But according to his promise we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.2Pe3.11&off=0&ctx=+will+be+exposed.3+%0a~11%C2%A0Since+all+these+t"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (2 Pe 3:11\endash 13). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\super 23\~}{\f0\fs24 Now before faith came, we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. }{\f2\fs24\b1\super 24\~}{\f0\fs24 So then, the law was our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be justified by faith. }{\f2\fs24\b1\super 25\~}{\f0\fs24 But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian, }{\f2\fs24\b1\super 26\~}{\f0\fs24 for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith. }{\f2\fs24\b1\super 27\~}{\f0\fs24 For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. }{\f2\fs24\b1\super 28\~}{\f0\fs24 There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. }{\f2\fs24\b1\super 29\~}{\f0\fs24 And if you are Christ\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s, then you are Abraham\u8217\'92s offspring, heirs according to promise. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ga3.23&off=0&ctx=those+who+believe.+%0a~23%C2%A0Now+before+faith+"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ga 3:23\endash 29). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f3\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs24\b1\super 5\~}{\f0\fs24 who by God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. }{\f2\fs24\b1\super 6\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.1Pe1.5&off=0&ctx=+in+heaven+for+you%2c+~5%C2%A0who+by+God%E2%80%99s+power"}{\fldrslt\f4\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f3\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (1 Pe 1:5\endash 6). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}}