{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Abraham called the name of his son who was born to him, whom Sarah bore him, Isaac. And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight days old, as God had commanded him. Abraham was a hundred years old when his son Isaac was born to him\u8221\'94 (Genesis 21:4-5). Here, Abraham illustrates the fact that a living faith produces obedience. In Genesis 17:19 God commanded Abraham to name his future son \u8216\'91Isaac\u8217\'92. In addition, God instituted circumcision as the sign of the covenant and commanded Abraham to apply it to the males of his household (Genesis 17:10-14). Though not sinless, Abraham consistently obeyed God throughout his faith journey as shown here. Abraham made plenty of mistakes and committed many sins (including lying on more than one occasion), but he oriented his entire life towards God and His promises. The altars of worship he erected in Canaan testified of his relationship with the Lord (Genesis 12:7; 17:18). }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Like Abraham, we must meet God and His promises with faith and obedience. Hebrews 11:6 says, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And without faith it is impossible to please him, for whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him.\u8221\'94 The foundation of our relationship with God is complete trust in Him. The two components of this trust includes belief in God\u8217\'92s existence and belief that He will reward those who seek Him. The acceptance of God\u8217\'92s existence is a no-brainer for us, but we consistently face obstacles to \u8220\'93seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness\u8221\'94 (Matthew 6:33). Oftentimes worries, concerns, and the pursuit of temporal things replace the diligent pursuit of God.  However, we must remember that the Lord has promised that the things we tend to worry about will be taken care of by God when we direct our first and best efforts to doing God\u8217\'92s will and looking forward to the return of Jesus. }}