{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 6}{\f0\fs24 . The reference to Enoch\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faith is justified by the comment }{\f0\fs24\i1 And without faith it is impossible to please him}{\f0\fs24 . Man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s relationship with God is built up on a mutual trust, and true communion cannot exist without this. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The writer goes on, in fact, to point out something much more elementary, but which he clearly saw the need to mention. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 (i) }{\f0\fs24\i1 Whoever would draw near to God must believe that he exists}{\f0\fs24 . It has already been seen how central to this epistle is the idea of drawing near to God (4:16; 7:25; 10:1, 22). The present statement must, therefore, be regarded as linking Enoch\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s experience with the whole purpose of the letter. It may seem strange that in an epistle which begins with an assertion of God (1:1), the writer should consider it necessary to point to the need for believing in his existence. But he is arguing from man\u8217\'92s experience of communion with God to the fact that his faith in God\u8217\'92s existence must be real. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 (ii) Such worshippers must also believe }{\f0\fs24\i1 that he rewards those who seek him}{\f0\fs24 . This statement is intended to reassure those who are questioning whether the quest for God is always successful. It needs faith to accept this, but the conviction that God rewards the serious seeker is fully in harmony with the nature of God as he has made himself known throughout his revelations to men. There is no fear that any seeker may not find him if he acts in faith.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Guthrie, D. (1983). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/tntc79hebus?ref=Bible.Heb11.6&off=0&ctx=ressed+our+writer.8%0a~6.+The+reference+to+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Hebrews: An Introduction and Commentary\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. 15, pp. 231\endash 232). Downers Grove, IL: InterVarsity Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li360\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 11:6. Without faith it is impossible to please God}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The language of the first part of this verse is generally typical of Hebrews: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u967\'3F\u969\'3F\u961\'3F\u943\'3F\u962\'3F, }{\f1\fs24 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8594\'3F}{\f0\fs24  4:15; \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7936\'3F\u948\'64\u973\'3F\u957\'3F\u945\'61\u964\'74\u959\'3F\u957\'3F, }{\f1\fs24 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8594\'3F}{\f0\fs24  6:4; \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u949\'65\u8016\'3F\u945\'61\u961\'3F\u949\'65\u963\'73\u964\'74\u8134\'3F\u963\'73\u945\'61\u953\'3F, }{\f1\fs24 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8594\'3F}{\f0\fs24  v. 5; \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u948\'64\u949\'65\u8150\'3F, }{\f1\fs24 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8594\'3F}{\f0\fs24  2:1; \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u960\'70\u961\'3F\u959\'3F\u963\'73\u949\'65\u961\'3F\u967\'3F\u972\'3F\u956\'B5\u949\'65\u957\'3F\u959\'3F\u957\'3F, }{\f1\fs24 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8594\'3F}{\f0\fs24  4:16.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u916\'3F\u941\'3F (}{\f1\fs24 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8594\'3F}{\f0\fs24  1:13) introduces a new stage in the argument. In fact, it is the major premise of a syllogism of which v. 5c formed the minor premise, while the conclusion, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93therefore, Enoch had faith,\u8221\'94 is left implicit. See Hegermann 1961.22.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7944\'3F\u948\'64\u973\'3F\u957\'3F\u945\'61\u964\'74\u959\'3F\u957\'3F: \u7952\'3F\u963\'73\u964\'74\u953\'3F\u957\'3F is implied, as for example in 6:4. The negative \u7936\'3F\u948\'64\u973\'3F\u957\'3F\u945\'61\u964\'74\u959\'3F\u957\'3F logically balances the following positive \u948\'64\u949\'65\u8150\'3F. Clement of Alexandria (}{\f0\fs24\i1 Strom.}{\f0\fs24  2.8.4) adds both \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7952\'3F\u963\'73\u964\'74\u953\'3F\u957\'3F after \u7936\'3F\u948\'64\u973\'3F\u957\'3F\u945\'61\u964\'74\u959\'3F\u957\'3F and \u952\'3F\u949\'65\u8183\'3F after \u949\'65\u8016\'3F\u945\'61\u961\'3F\u949\'65\u963\'73\u964\'74\u8134\'3F\u963\'73\u945\'61\u953\'3F: a correct gloss. \u916\'3F\u973\'3F\u957\'3F\u945\'61\u964\'74\u959\'3F\u962\'3F and cognates tend to require a following aorist infinitive (BD 338[2]).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u915\'47\u940\'3F\u961\'3F links vv. 5b and 6a with a corollary, the scope of which is broader than Enoch. It expresses two conditions of true worship, which are at the same time two components of faith: belief (1) that God exists, and (2) that he rewards those who seek him. The distinction between these points is heightened by the scribes of 206 216 326 1831, who added \u960\'70\u961\'3F\u8182\'3F\u964\'74\u959\'3F\u957\'3F, and of 1836, who added \u960\'70\u961\'3F\u972\'3F\u964\'74\u949\'65\u961\'3F\u959\'3F\u957\'3F. The simple statement that God exists (\u7956\'3F\u963\'73\u964\'74\u953\'3F\u957\'3F absolutely, Bauer D I.1) has few if any biblical parallels. The practical atheism of those who live as though God did not exist is condemned in Pss. 13:1; 53(LXX 52):1; Wis. 12:13 affirms that there is no other God than the Lord. The influence of the LXX translation of YHWH as \u8001\'3F \u8044\'3F\u957\'3F (Ex. 3:14) may be traced through Wis. 13:1 to 1 Cor. 8:5; Rev. 11:17; 16:5, etc. A faint echo of Ex. 3:14 may be heard here, especially since Heb. 11:16 alludes to Ex. 3:6, 15. Greek discussion of God\u8217\'92s (or the gods\u8217\'92) existence, by contrast, is extensive: e.g., Philo, }{\f0\fs24\i1 Op. Mundi}{\f0\fs24  170; Epict. }{\f0\fs24\i1 Diss.}{\f0\fs24  2.14.11; Diod. Sic. 12.20.2. The abstract quality of the words \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8005\'3F\u964\'74\u953\'3F \u7956\'3F\u963\'73\u964\'74\u953\'3F\u957\'3F is, however, attenuated by the surrounding references to worship (\u960\'70\u961\'3F\u959\'3F\u963\'73\u949\'65\u961\'3F\u967\'3F\u972\'3F\u956\'B5\u949\'65\u957\'3F\u959\'3F\u957\'3F \u8230\'85 \u7952\'3F\u954\'3F\u950\'3F\u951\'3F\u964\'74\u959\'3F\u8166\'3F\u963\'73\u953\'3F\u957\'3F). Moreover, the second aspect of faith may be understood, not as correlative with the first, but as a consequence: \u8220\'93\u8230\'85 that he exists, and therefore rewards\u8221\'94 (Bauer }{\f0\fs24\i1 s.v.}{\f0\fs24  \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u954\'3F\u945\'61\u943\'3F, I.1f.). In any case, the speculative note is sounded only in passing; everywhere else in Hebrews (with the possible exception of \u960\'70\u943\'3F\u963\'73\u964\'74\u949\'65\u969\'3F\u962\'3F \u7952\'3F\u960\'70\u8054\'3F \u952\'3F\u949\'65\u972\'3F\u957\'3F, 6:1), the existence of God is presupposed.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u7960\'3F\u954\'3F\u950\'3F\u951\'3F\u964\'74\u941\'3F\u969\'3F, though possibly stronger than the simple \u950\'3F\u951\'3F\u964\'74\u941\'3F\u969\'3F, is not exclusively used of worship (}{\f1\fs24 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8594\'3F}{\f0\fs24  12:17*), though the context requires this meaning here. The language is that of OT devotion (Dt. 4:29; Pss. 34:4[LXX 33:5]; 69:32[LXX 68:33] and frequently of the Psalms; Acts 15:17 = Am. 9:12; cf. }{\f0\fs24\i1 1 Clem}{\f0\fs24 . 13:1). It is God himself who must be sought: there is no thought of philosophical investigation of propositions about God.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The thought of reward is common in the OT and even in the NT (H. Preisker in }{\f0\fs24\i1 TDNT}{\f0\fs24  IV.695\endash 728, here 701), though the word \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u956\'B5\u953\'3F\u963\'73\u952\'3F\u945\'61\u960\'70\u959\'3F\u948\'64\u972\'3F\u964\'74\u951\'3F\u962\'3F*** is probably a neologism (cf. \u956\'B5\u953\'3F\u963\'73\u952\'3F\u945\'61\u960\'70\u959\'3F\u948\'64\u959\'3F\u963\'73\u943\'3F\u945\'61, }{\f1\fs24 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8594\'3F}{\f0\fs24  4:2). The nature of the reward or goal of faith is not defined at this point, though it becomes progressively clearer as the chapter proceeds, and especially in 12:21\endash 24. In Enoch\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s case, the reward was doubtless that of removal by God from earth to heaven: the thought that God himself is the reward is not expressed here, or even in 12:23.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Ellingworth, P. (1993). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nigtcheb?ref=Bible.Heb11.6"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Epistle to the Hebrews: a commentary on the Greek text\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 576\endash 577). Grand Rapids, MI; Carlisle: W.B. Eerdmans; Paternoster Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}