{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And Sarah said, \u8216\'91God has made laughter for me; everyone who hears will laugh over me.\u8217\'92 And she said, \u8216\'91Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? Yet I have borne him a son in his old age\u8217\'92\u8221\'94 (Genesis 21:6-7). Sarah\u8217\'92s unbelief turned to laughter. Isaac will be a living reminder that nothing is too hard for the Lord (Genesis 18:14). The God who created the universe out of nothing with His word can easily overcome infertility in a woman. Sarah personally experienced what Jesus teaches through His word, that \u8220\'93with God all things are possible\u8221\'94 (Matthew 19:26). Since God possesses omnipotent and unlimited power, His promises are guaranteed. Sarah\u8217\'92s experience should remind us that though the nights of loneliness, despair, and pain might be long, God will bring joy in the morning. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Looking backward, we can rejoice with Sarah because through Isaac God fulfilled His promise to create a covenant people, Israel. Then, God fulfilled His promise of a divine Son through Israel. The virgin Mary\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s conception of Jesus was different and much more miraculous than Sarah\u8217\'92s, who conceived through normal human intercourse. Mary rejoiced and magnified the Lord because Jesus was the ultimate fulfillment of the promise made the Abraham (Luke 2:46-55). We should rejoice in the Lord always, for since we are in Christ we are Abraham\u8217\'92s offspring, heirs according to the same promise (Philippians 4:4; Galatians 3:29). We also rejoice in the fact that a bright future awaits the people of God, for \u8220\'93according to his promise we are waiting for the new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells\u8221\'94 (2 Peter 3:13).}}