{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The divine record does not provide a detailed account of Isaac\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s childhood, except for one event which brought Abraham much sorrow. Among the Hebrew women the practice of training a child to eat food other than the mother\u8217\'92s milk (weaning) occurred when the child reached three or four years old (Powell, p. 1097). Abraham held a feast to celebrate Isaac\u8217\'92s weaning, but when Sarah notices Ishmael mocking the occasion she demands that Abraham send Hagar and Ishmael away from the family (Genesis 21:8-10). Sarah does not want Hagar or Ishmael to have any share of Isaac\u8217\'92s inheritance. The web of jealousy and bitterness that was spun years ago had become much more entangled with anger, resentment, and malice. Ishmael sinned by mocking the child of promise and Sarah sinned by over-reacting with cruelty. The conflict that had simmered in Abraham\u8217\'92s household for years was now boiling over.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s ultimatum emotionally lodged Abraham heart between a rock and a hard place }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 because he deeply loved Ishmael}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , but God used the conflict to accomplish His purpose: }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Be not displeased because of the boy and because of your slave woman. Whatever Sarah says to you, do as she tells you, for through Isaac shall your offspring be named. And I will make a nation of the son of the slave woman also, because he is your offspring\u8221\'94 (Genesis 21:12-13). The Lord treasured both Isaac and Ishmael. By faith, Abraham sent Hagar and Ishmael away as the Lord commanded, trusting God\u8217\'92s ability to protect them and fulfill His promise (Genesis 21:14). God does indeed protect and provide for them and was with Ishmael as he grew up (Genesis 21:15-21).  Because of His great love for Abraham, God blessed Ishmael even though he does not participate in promises given to the elect line of Isaac.}}