{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs28\b1\scaps Wean}{\f0\fs24\b1 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 }{\f0\fs24 Among the Hebrews children (whom it was customary for the mothers to nurse, Ex. 2:7\endash 9; 1 Sam. 1:23; Cant. 8:1) were not generally weaned till they were three or four years old.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Easton, M. G. (1893). In \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/eastons?hw=Wean"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Easton\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s Bible dictionary\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 . New York: Harper & Brothers.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 weaning,}{\f0\fs24  the practice of training a child to eat food other than mother\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s milk. In biblical times it was an occasion to celebrate when a child was weaned (Gen. 21:8). It marked Samuel\u8217\'92s departure for special training (1 Sam. 1:21\endash 28). A weaned child symbolized the peaceable kingdom of the Messiah (Isa. 11:8) or the helpless result of a delinquent leadership (28:9).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Powell, M. A. (Ed.). (2011). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/hcbbldict?ref=biblio.at%3dweaning%7ced%3dPowell%2c%2520Mark%2520Allan"}{\fldrslt\f1\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf3 weaning\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0 . In \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i1 The HarperCollins Bible Dictionary (Revised and Updated)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Third Edition, p. 1097). New York: HarperCollins.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0}