{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Paul now inverts the exegesis which would have commended itself to him in earlier days. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Now it is the people of the law who are the offspring of the slave woman; the children of the free woman are those who embrace the gospel of justification by faith, comprising a minority of Jews and a rapidly increasing preponderance of Gentiles. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 To Jews this exegesis must have seemed preposterous. It was crystal clear that they were Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s offspring, while Hagar\u8217\'92s descendants were Gentiles. One could envisage a group like the Qumran community claiming that its members alone, because of their special devotion to the law, were sons of the promise, while the apostate majority of Israel deserved to be ranked with the Ishmaelites; but that bears no resemblance to Paul\u8217\'92s argument. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 For Paul, law and promise are antithetical. His own experience had convinced him that the law brought men and women into bondage, while the gospel was a message of liberation. Therefore, he argues, the people of the law belong to Hagar\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s family, for she \u8216\'91is from Mount Sinai, bearing children for slavery\u8217\'92; those who believe the gospel are the children of Sarah, the free woman. We cannot know how convincing Paul\u8217\'92s Gentile readers found this argument; much would depend on the degree to which they had assimilated his principles of OT interpretation.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 What Paul had learned from his personal experience corresponded with his reading of history of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s dealings with mankind. The gospel is the fulfilment of the promise made to Abraham that in him and his offspring all nations would be blessed (cf. 3:8, 16). The law, which was given later, was a parenthetical dispensation introduced by God for a limited purpose; its validity continued only until the promise to Abraham was fulfilled in Christ, and even while it was valid it did not modify the terms of the promise (cf. 3:17\endash 25).}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= Bruce, F. F. (1982). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nigtcgal?ref=Bible.Ga4.24&off=6527&ctx=ollowers+of+Christ.%0a~Paul+now+inverts+the"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Epistle to the Galatians: a commentary on the Greek text\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 219). Grand Rapids, MI: W.B. Eerdmans Pub. Co.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The identification of Hagar with Sinai means simply that she and her descendants represent the law, which holds men and women in bondage. If she also corresponds to the present Jerusalem \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u963\'73\u965\'3F\u963\'73\u964\'74\u959\'3F\u953\'3F\u967\'3F\u949\'65\u8150\'3F \u948\'64\u8050\'3F \u964\'74\u8135\'3F \u957\'3F\u8166\'3F\u957\'3F \u7992\'3F\u949\'65\u961\'3F\u959\'3F\u965\'3F\u963\'73\u945\'61\u955\'3F\u942\'3F\u956\'B5), it is not so much the literal city that is meant as the whole legal system of Judaism, which had its world-centre in Jerusalem. If Paul\u8217\'92s opponents were trying to bring his Galatian converts into subjection to the church of Jerusalem and its leadership, that would add point to Paul\u8217\'92s reference to \u8216\'91the present Jerusalem\u8217\'92. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The leaders of the Jerusalem church had reached an accommodation with Paul about the gospel which he preached and his commission to propagate it in the Gentile world (2:1\endash 9); if they were now going back on that agreement, if they were party to the attempt to impose the yoke of the law on the Gentile churches of Galatia (a charge against them to which Paul does not commit himself), then they would be making a common cause with the community which is still \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91in slavery with her children\u8217\'92.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Bruce, F. F. (1982). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nigtcgal?ref=Bible.Ga4.25&off=1623&ctx=%3b+27:31%3b+Ps.+83:6.)%0a~The+identification+o"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Epistle to the Galatians: a commentary on the Greek text\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 220). Grand Rapids, MI: W.B. Eerdmans Pub. Co.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}}