{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In this chapter we see the sovereign grace of God in full display. Within a year of Isaac\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s birth, Abraham foolishly reverts to \u8216\'91old Abram\u8217\'92 and jeopardizes his role in God\u8217\'92s plan of redemption. Fortunately, God extended mercy to Abraham and Sarah but justice to Abimelech, who had been deceived by Abraham. We must remember that \u8220\'93when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared,}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super \~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Titus 3:5). As Christians, we all stand on the grace of God and must remember that our salvation does not depend on the good things we have done.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Also we see that God has imprinted upon the human soul His moral standards for living. We are all formed in the image of God and according to the apostle Paul, all men are without excuse because God has given a general revelation of Himself (Romans 1:19-20). These fundamental truths forms the basis of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s interaction with humanity, as we see in the case of Abimelech. God will hold every person accountable because He has provided sufficient revelation of Himself and his moral standard to all people. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 However, as Christians must remember that we are the instrumental means by which God bring salvation to a lost world. Although Abraham sinned against and deceived Abimelech, he remained God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s elect instrument of salvation in the situation. The oft repeated criticism that the church is full of hypocrites should not quench our passion for spreading the gospel to all people. The hope we are to offer to others is not sinless perfection. The hope we offer is eternal, abundant life with God through Jesus Christ that begins now but is brought to full realization in the new heavens and earth. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We would think that by this time in his life Abraham would have achieved complete victory over the fear of man and circumstances. He had stood face to face with the Lord and witnessed His awesome power. God had spoken to Him in various ways at different times to reassure him. However, fear and doubt continued to plague Abraham. Like Abraham, we must face and acknowledge the persistence of sin in our lives. The apostle Paul expressed his frustrations with sin in his own life (Romans 7:15). However, Paul reflections ended on a note of victory. He reminds us that in Christ we have the spiritual resources we need to overcome sin (Romans 7:24-25). }}