{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 Keep in Step with the Spirit}
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 16\~}{\f0\fs24 But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 17\~}{\f0\fs24 For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 18\~}{\f0\fs24 But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 19\~}{\f0\fs24 Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 20\~}{\f0\fs24 idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 21\~}{\f0\fs24 envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 22\~}{\f0\fs24 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 23\~}{\f0\fs24 gentleness, self-control; against such things there is no law. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 24\~}{\f0\fs24 And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24  }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 25\~}{\f0\fs24 If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 26\~}{\f0\fs24 Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ga5.16&off=0&ctx=ed+by+one+another.+%0a~Keep+in+Step+with+th"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ga 5:16\endash 26). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 17\~}{\f0\fs24 But if, in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we too were found to be sinners, is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly not! }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 18\~}{\f0\fs24 For if I rebuild what I tore down, I prove myself to be a transgressor. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 19\~}{\f0\fs24 For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live to God. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 20\~}{\f0\fs24 I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 21\~}{\f0\fs24 I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ga2.17&off=0&ctx=will+be+justified.+%0a~17%C2%A0But+if%2c+in+our+en"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ga 2:17\endash 21). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 Matthew 26:40\endash 41}
\par\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 40}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 And he came to the disciples and found them sleeping. And he said to Peter, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93So, could you not watch with me one hour? }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 41}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }{\f0\fs24 Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tqr\tx200\tx400\li960\fi-960\sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Search me, O God, and know my heart! }
\par\pard\plain \li960\fi-320\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Try me and know my thoughts! }
\par\pard\plain \tqr\tx200\tx400\li960\fi-960\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \tab }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 24\~}{\f0\fs24 \tab And see if there be any grievous way in me, }
\par\pard\plain \li960\fi-320\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 and lead me in the way everlasting! \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ps139.23&off=5&ctx=%E2%80%A2+my+enemies.+%0a+23%C2%A0+~Search+me%2c+O+God%2c+an"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ps 139:23\endash 24). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 5\~}{\f0\fs24 he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Tt3.4&off=2&ctx=ting+one+another.+4%C2%A0~But+when+d%EF%BB%BFthe+goodn"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Tt 3:4\endash 5). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}}