{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-720\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs28\b1 N.}{\f0\fs28 \tab }{\f0\fs28\b1 Abraham Fell Back into Sin: Keeping Faith\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 How God Keeps and Secures the Believer Even Through Sin, 20:1\endash 18}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (20:1\endash 18) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Introduction\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 God, Keeping Power\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Assurance\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Security}{\f0\fs24 : God keeps His people throughout life, even through sin. God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s pure grace and glorious power carries His people through all the trials of life. This passage is a clear picture of what God means by working all things out for good to those who love Him and are called according to His purpose (Ro. 8:28).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Here is the picture: on the very eve of one of the greatest moments in Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s life (the long hoped for son), he sinned again, sinned terribly. And by his sin, he imperiled and jeopardized the hope. Once again, God was forced to intervene on his behalf. God showed His eternal mercy by keeping and preserving His dear follower, even through his terrible sin. Abraham was saved and kept by God and by God alone. God took the initiative to intervene on Abraham\u8217\'92s behalf. By such, he showed Abraham and all succeeding generations that it is His grace and His grace alone that continues to save and keep the believer. The believer is shown to be what he really is: a believer yes, but a frail, mortal, depraved human being. He is but a poor sinner who is }{\f0\fs24\i1 saved and kept}{\f0\fs24  by God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s pure grace and glorious power.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Time and again throughout Genesis and the rest of the Bible, God is seen delivering and keeping His servants, even through sin (note, not }{\f0\fs24\i1 from}{\f0\fs24  sin but }{\f0\fs24\i1 through}{\f0\fs24  sin). God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s servants are shown to be mere men, totally depraved men. As stated, they are seen as frail mortals and poor sinners who not only have to be saved but }{\f0\fs24\i1 kept by God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s pure grace and glorious power}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The question naturally arises, }{\f0\fs24\i1 why?}{\f0\fs24  Why does God deliver and keep His people\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 even through sin\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 when they are depraved and show their depravity by sinning so often? Why does God continue to save believers when they come so short of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s glory (Ro. 3:23)? Why does God not just cast off His people, judge and erase them from His memory forever? Scripture gives one supreme reason. It is revealed in the New Testament.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 God loves His only Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, supremely; and God has made one supreme promise to Him: that He shall have }{\f0\fs24\i1 many adopted brothers and sisters}{\f0\fs24 , a family created \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93in the image of God\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93conformed to the image of Christ.\u8221\'94 (See }{\f1\fs20\scaps Deeper Study}{\f1\fs20  # 1}{\f0\fs24 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 1:26; 1 Jn. 3:2.)\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge20.1-18&off=4318&ctx=ah+Abraham%E2%80%99s+wife.%0a%0a~N.+Abraham+Fell+Back"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 108\endash 109). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The point is this: Abraham had a lapse of faith; he once again failed to trust God to take care of him and left the promised land. True, he did not go all the way back down into Egypt, but he almost did: he went right up the border of Egypt, to the city of Gerar, the city that was then the prosperous and thriving capital of the Philistines.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Abraham probably moved to Gerar because it was the capital, the largest market for his business transactions. But he should have never made the move; he should have moved to other cities within the heart of the promised land, trusting God to help him establish markets there. But his faith in God wavered, weakened, and eventually collapsed. He just could not see how he could maintain his business and other holdings unless he lived close by a large city. Thus, he once again made a decision on his own without God, made a decision based on his own human reasoning. Abraham forsook the promised land.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 b. Abraham deceived and lied to others. One sin always leads to another sin. Having left the promised land for a strange country, Abraham began to fear for his own personal safety. He allowed }{\f0\fs24\i1 thoughts}{\f0\fs24  of doubt and evil to enter his mind: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Would the noblemen and king of Gerar kill him in order to take Sarah as wife? Was it God\u8217\'92s will for him to leave Hebron? To move to the land of the Philistines, to their capital? Should he have remained in Hebron, trusting God to help him? If he had made a mistake, would God help him now?\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 When Abraham reached the capital, he gave in to the doubts and evil thoughts. Sin after sin began to be heaped one upon another.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abraham was overcome by doubt and fear: he doubted the care and provision of God and feared that the noblemen and king might kill him in order to take Sarah.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abraham lied, claiming that Sarah was his sister, not his wife. And Abimelech, the king, took Sarah into his harem. (Note: }{\f0\fs24\i1 Abimelech}{\f0\fs24  was a title for the ruler, not a personal name.)}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abraham acted selfishly, putting his own safety first and risking the safety, honor, and purity of Sarah. He was willing for her to be sexually abused, to commit adultery, and to be endangered if she displeased the man\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 all to save his own neck. And remember, Sarah was pregnant at this time, pregnant with the promised son, Isaac.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sin was great indeed, just unbelievable at this stage of his life and spiritual maturity. But here he was, falling into gross sin during the most important time of his life, sinning when the most important event of his life was about to take place: the birth of the promised son. Here he was endangering the very purpose and will of God to send the promised seed to earth, endangering the very life of Sarah and the child within her.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Abraham forsook the promised land. Abraham forgot \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab that the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  is \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the Almighty God\u8221\'94 (Ge. 17:1)}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab that nothing is too hard for the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 , that the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  has the power to do all things (Ge. 18:14)}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 We must never forget who God is, never forget His omnipotent, unlimited power to help us. We must never stop seeking the promised land of heaven. No matter how great a trial confronts us, we must never cave in and leave the promised land. We must not backslide. God will help us and look after us if we will only trust Him.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge20.1-2&off=1926&ctx=+utterly+destroyed.%0a~The+point+is+this:+A"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 110). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 2}{\f0\fs24  (20:3\endash 7) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Security\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 God, Names}{\f0\fs24 : God secured the believer by a miraculous intervention. Abraham had sinned, sinned tragically. As stated, he was endangering the purpose of God to send the promised son, endangering the very life of Sarah who was pregnant with the promised son. God could not allow this; He could not allow His purpose to be stopped. The promised seed (son) had to be born so that the promised line could be continued and the Savior of the world could be born sometime in the future, just as God had promised. What was God to do? Abraham and Sarah were }{\f0\fs24\i1 out of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s will}{\f0\fs24 , walking after the flesh; they were in a predicament, unable to handle the situation. All seemed lost: they were helpless to straighten out the mess into which they had gotten. There was only one thing to do: God Himself had to intervene. And this He did. God appeared to Abimelech in a dream one night.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. God warned the king of judgment. Abimelech was in danger of dying because he was about to commit adultery with Sarah. Note the seriousness of adultery in God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s eyes. The world of Abraham\u8217\'92s day was an immoral world. Immorality\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 free sex, loose sex, all kinds of sex\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 ran wild. People did their own thing; did what they wanted when they wanted. Pologamy\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 having many wives\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 was the common practice, and the wealthy often had harems of concubines. One wife for one man was a rarity, if it existed at all. But again, note God\u8217\'92s attitude in dealing with this perverted and immoral king: the law of God still stood. Adultery was still a sin, and it was to be punished. Abimelech was as good as dead if he touched Sarah.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 b. The king appealed to the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 . He claimed that he and his people were innocent and blameless, for he had not gone near Sarah. Moreover, he had no idea that she was Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s wife, for they had both claimed to be brother and sister (vv. 4\endash 5).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Now, note that Abimelech called God \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the Lord\u8221\'94 (Adonai). The Hebrew means }{\f0\fs24\i1 Lord of All}{\f0\fs24 . Abimelech apparently was God-fearing and recognized that the God of his dream was the Lord of all. This is seen in two facts.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He acknowledged that the Lord had the power over all persons and nations. Note the question he asked: Was the Lord going to destroy an innocent nation, him and his people (v. 4)?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab He acknowledged that the Lord was just and righteous; He did not punish people unjustly. Note what he said to the Lord: the Lord must know that the king had acted in the integrity of his heart, that his conscience was clear and his hands clean in the whole affair (v. 5).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 c. God then revealed Himself to Abimelech as the true God (Ha \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91elohim). The Hebrew actually means }{\f0\fs24\i1 the true God}{\f0\fs24 . Abimelech was not only talking with the Lord of All (Adonai) in his dream, but he was talking with the true God (Ha \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91elohim). God revealed three things to Abimelech:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab The true God has knowledge of all: He knew that the king was innocent (v. 6}{\f0\fs24\super a}{\f0\fs24 ).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab The true God has power over all persons and their affairs: He had kept Abimelech from touching Sarah. God had actually afflicted the king and his household with some kind of disease that kept them from having sex and bearing children (v. 6}{\f0\fs24\super b}{\f0\fs24 ; see vv. 17\endash 18).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab The true God expected and demanded that the king not commit adultery, that he return Sarah to Abraham (v. 7). Note that God told the king that Abraham was a prophet and that Abraham would pray for the king\u8217\'92s healing. But if he refused to return Sarah, he would die, he and his whole family (v. 7).}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The point is this: God cared for Abraham and Sarah; moreover, He could not allow His promise to be stopped. The promised son had to be born through Sarah. Thus God had to intervene on behalf of His two believers, intervene despite their terrible sin. God had to miraculously step in to save Sarah from being touched by the king (v. 6}{\f0\fs24\super b}{\f0\fs24 ). This He did by striking fear\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the fear of God\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 into the heart of Abimelech. Abimelech was to die if he did not listen to God and turn away from committing adultery with Sarah.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . God has the power to save and keep the believer. He can do whatever is necessary to keep the believer, even intervene miraculously.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge20.3-7&off=0&ctx=e.+20:1%EF%BB%BFf%3b+26:6%EF%BB%BFf)%0a%0a~2+(20:3%E2%80%937)+Security%E2%80%94"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 111). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 4}{\f0\fs24  (20:11\endash 13) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Confession}{\f0\fs24 : God secured the believer through an honest confession of sin. Remember, Abraham did not know that God had appeared to the king in a dream. In Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s mind, he had only one hope, only one chance to save himself before the king: tell the truth. He had to confess his sin and shame, trusting that God would move upon the king\u8217\'92s heart to spare him from execution. Abraham was, of course, confessing before God while he was confessing to the king. In fact, confessing to a person that one has sinned against him is the most difficult confession to make. Note Abraham\u8217\'92s confession.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. He confessed the sin of fear, of not trusting God to take care of him and Sarah (v. 1). Abraham confessed that he feared the Philistines, that they would kill him for his wife. Note why he feared them: because he did not sense a fear of God among the Philistines. They were living just as all the other people in Canaan were: living selfish, immoral and lawless lives. Consequently, Abraham feared that their selfish, immoral, and lawless spirit would take action against him. He just failed to trust God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s care; his fear was greater than his trust of God, at least in these circumstances.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 b. He confessed the sin of lying, of twisting the truth, of telling half-truths (v. 12). Sarah was his half-sister, the daughter of his father, not of his mother.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 c. Abraham confessed the sin of misusing and exploiting people (v. 13). Abraham confessed that he had made this claim throughout his life, that he had led Sarah to go along with the scheme from the beginning of their journey to the promised land (v. 13). This was a horrible sin: that of misusing and exploiting Sarah, of dishonoring and shaming her, and of risking her life if the king or noblemen were displeased with her. It is possible that the king Abimelech had taken Sarah into his harem in order to make an alliance with Abraham. Remember, Abraham was a powerful sheik at that time. Nevertheless, Abraham had lied and misused Sarah to protect his own life, and he stood guilty of the charges: he had shamed and dishonored his wife, misused her to protect himself. This must have been an extremely difficult confession to make. But Abraham had to confess the sin, for he was guilty before God and the king.}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . God keeps and secures us through confession of sins. We are saved and we are kept by confession.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge20.11-13&off=0&ctx=eby%E2%80%9D+(He.+12:9%E2%80%9311).%0a~4+(20:11%E2%80%9313)+Confess"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 113). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . God often keeps and secures the believer through a human rebuke and chastisement, through the rebuke and chastisement of other people. In love, God sees to it that we are rebuked and chastised so that we will be embarrassed and shamed and stop our sin and live like we should.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (1)\tab God sees to it that we are often rebuked and corrected by other people.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge20.8-10&off=3356&ctx=rebuke+of+the+king.%0a~Thought+1.+God+often"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 112). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}