{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In Galatians 5:17 the apostle Paul wrote, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do.\u8221\'94 The ongoing struggle with sin is a reality for the Christian journey. We will always feel the pull of the flesh as long we are in this world. There are times when we all cave into fear, anger, lust, etc. How should we respond to repeated failures, weaknesses, and sins? How can we gain victory over those bad habits that continue linger in our lives?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abraham faced the same struggles and sins as we do today. As he continued to pursue God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise he faced dangerous situations that challenged his faith. Now on the very eve of the fulfillment of God\u8217\'92s promise to provide an heir, Abraham reverted to an old sin in order to protect himself: deception. Time and again men and women of faith in the Scriptures remind us, through their own failures and sins, that we all have feet of clay. And thus, time and time again we are reminded of God\u8217\'92s amazing grace and steadfast love.}}