{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93From there Abraham journeyed toward the territory of the Negeb and lived between Kadesh and Shur; and he sojourned in Gerar. And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, \u8216\'91She is my sister.\u8217\'92 And Abimelech king of Gerar sent and took Sarah\u8221\'94 (Genesis 20:1-2). After the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, journeyed to Gerar. Once there, he repeats the earlier sin he committed in Egypt, telling the king of Gerar that Sarah is his sister. As we discovered in the account of the angel\u8217\'92s visit with Lot, traveling in foreign lands proved was dangerous. Instead of trusting God\u8217\'92s protection, Abraham resorts to deception in order to protect himself at the expense of Sarah. Even after having dined with the Lord and witnessing the awesome display of God\u8217\'92s power in the destruction of Sodom, Abraham resorted to self-reliance in order to escape danger. }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s experience reflects our own: we often struggle with the same old sins and mistakes. Like Abraham, our faith journey is filled with moments of great displays of faith intermingled with moments of disobedience. Oftentimes, the moments of disobedience are occasioned by a lack of prayerful vigilance. On the eve of his crucifixion, Jesus warned his disciples to \u8220\'93watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation\u8221\'94 (Matthew 26:40). He issued this warning because despite our best intentions, we need to be prepared to face challenging circumstances. Like Peter who displayed overconfidence in self but still denied the Lord, we will resort to our old, sinful responses when depending on our own resources to deal with trials and temptations. }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\qj\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0}