{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abraham repeated the same old sin and endangered the purpose of God by risking Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s life. However, God gracefully intervened to straighten out the mess. Abimelech, the king of Gerar had taken Sarah but before he had sexual contact with her, God appeared to him in a dream. God warned Abimelech that he was a good as dead for taking Sarah (Genesis 20:3). The king responded by defending his innocence - he had been deceived by Abraham\u8217\'92s brother-sister narrative. Abimlech\u8217\'92s response reveals that people outside of the covenant have God\u8217\'92s moral law stamped on their conscience. For one, he acknowledged the sanctity of marriage. Two, Abimelech acknowledged God\u8217\'92s sovereignty over nations and three, he appealed to God\u8217\'92s justice and righteousness (Genesis 20:4-5). The Lord struck fear in Abimelech\u8217\'92s heart and commanded him to return Sarah. In turn, Abraham, who is a prophet, would pray for Abimelech and his people.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In this passage, Abimelech\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s character shines more brightly than does Abaraham\u8217\'92s. However, God does not abandon Abraham despite his grave mistake. He intervenes to save Sarah, to preserve the seed promise, to save Abimelech, and to restore Abraham. What a wonderful picture of grace and mercy! Just as God powerfully intervened to deliver the covenant couple from their sin. He has given us the power to overcome those old sinful habits that seek to pull us down. Our power is found in the indwelling Holy Spirit, given to us by God as a guarantee of protection and victory over sin. We will always struggle against the desires of the old man. However, as we prayerfully commune with God, renew our minds with and obey Scripture, and seek encouragement from the fellowship of the saints, the Spirit will give us the inner strength to resist sin.}}