{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The experience of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s grace and mercy must be met with repentance. God used Abimelech\u8217\'92s fear of the Lord to highlight Abraham\u8217\'92s need for repentance. After hearing from the Lord, Abimelech summoned Abraham, asking why did he endanger Abimelech\u8217\'92s kingdom by lying about Sarah. Hamilton notes that Abimelech\u8217\'92s response reflects a widespread ancient Near East value that adultery was \u8220\'93the great }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://48C45D05-E5B5-4317-9971-36ED10BF253A"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 sin\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  (Hamilton, p. 67). His response also shows that Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sin had a wider range of impact than he may have originally thought. Such is the nature of sin. Abraham attempted to justify his conduct with the false premise that Abimelech and his people did not fear the Lord (Genesis 20:11). Next, he attempted to cover up his deception by revealing that Sarah was truly his half-sister. Finally, he shifts responsibility by saying it was God who caused him to wander in hostile environments and thereby, Sarah consented from the beginning of their journeys to use the brother-sister trick to protect themselves! Thus we learn that through years of journeying and fellowship with, Abraham kept this deceitful tactic in his back pocket. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s experience is often our own. Oftentimes, we allow the fear of man and circumstances to drive us to act in ways contrary to God\u8217\'92s will. At times, selfishness may drive our behaviors. We hold on to sinful habits deemed somewhat non-trivial, such as impatience, pride, gossip, judgmental attitudes, etc. God will providentially arrange circumstances through which we will become more aware of the seriousness of sins which we deem \u8216\'91respectable\u8217\'92. Just as God used Abimelech to rebuke Abraham, He will use people in our lives to correct and make us aware of the gravity of our sins. Our daily prayers should include petitions for the Lord to search our hearts and try our thoughts in order to reveal any grievous sins in our lives and to lead us in the everlasting way (Psalms 139:23-24)!}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Through God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s mercy, Abimelech returned Sarah to Abraham with generous gifts. In return, Abraham prayed to God to heal Abimelech\u8217\'92s wife and female slaves who had become sterile through the ordeal (Genesis 20:17-18). This act of compassionate intercession reveals Abraham\u8217\'92s penitent heart. Along with the sense of justice and righteousness he displayed when interceding for Sodom, it also showed him to be a worthy prophet. Like Abraham, we cannot claim sinless perfection, but we are called to promote justice in the world and to intercede for the lost around us. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}