{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 Abraham and Abimelech}
\par\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs36\b1 20\~}{\f0\fs24 From there Abraham journeyed toward the territory of the Negeb and lived between Kadesh and Shur; and he sojourned in Gerar. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 2\~}{\f0\fs24 And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93She is my sister.\u8221\'94 And Abimelech king of Gerar sent and took Sarah. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 3\~}{\f0\fs24 But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night and said to him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Behold, you are a dead man because of the woman whom you have taken, for she is a man\u8217\'92s wife.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 4\~}{\f0\fs24 Now Abimelech had not approached her. So he said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Lord, will you kill an innocent people? }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 5\~}{\f0\fs24 Did he not himself say to me, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91She is my sister\u8217\'92? And she herself said, \u8216\'91He is my brother.\u8217\'92 In the integrity of my heart and the innocence of my hands I have done this.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 6\~}{\f0\fs24 Then God said to him in the dream, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Yes, I know that you have done this in the integrity of your heart, and it was I who kept you from sinning against me. Therefore I did not let you touch her. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 7\~}{\f0\fs24 Now then, return the man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s wife, for he is a prophet, so that he will pray for you, and you shall live. But if you do not return her, know that you shall surely die, you and all who are yours.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 8\~}{\f0\fs24 So Abimelech rose early in the morning and called all his servants and told them all these things. And the men were very much afraid. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 9\~}{\f0\fs24 Then Abimelech called Abraham and said to him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93What have you done to us? And how have I sinned against you, that you have brought on me and my kingdom a great sin? You have done to me things that ought not to be done.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 10\~}{\f0\fs24 And Abimelech said to Abraham, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93What did you see, that you did this thing?\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 11\~}{\f0\fs24 Abraham said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I did it because I thought, \u8216\'91There is no fear of God at all in this place, and they will kill me because of my wife.\u8217\'92 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 12\~}{\f0\fs24 Besides, she is indeed my sister, the daughter of my father though not the daughter of my mother, and she became my wife. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 13\~}{\f0\fs24 And when God caused me to wander from my father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s house, I said to her, \u8216\'91This is the kindness you must do me: at every place to which we come, say of me, \u8220\'93He is my brother.\u8221\'94\~\u8217\'92\~\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 14\~}{\f0\fs24 Then Abimelech took sheep and oxen, and male servants and female servants, and gave them to Abraham, and returned Sarah his wife to him. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 15\~}{\f0\fs24 And Abimelech said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Behold, my land is before you; dwell where it pleases you.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 16\~}{\f0\fs24 To Sarah he said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Behold, I have given your brother a thousand pieces of silver. It is a sign of your innocence in the eyes of all who are with you, and before everyone you are vindicated.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 17\~}{\f0\fs24 Then Abraham prayed to God, and God healed Abimelech, and also healed his wife and female slaves so that they bore children. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 18\~}{\f0\fs24 For the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  had closed all the wombs of the house of Abimelech because of Sarah, Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s wife. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ge20.1&off=1584"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ge 20:1\endash 18). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}