{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 If one views them as two separate events, then the Scriptures are showing that the postcovenant Abraham, for all his spiritual maturation (e.g., Gen. 15:6), is still much like the precovenant Abraham.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The entire OT is replete with examples of individuals who display continuity between precovenant and postcovenant behavior; or perhaps more accurately, the OT is replete with illustrations of individuals who, though postcovenant, live as if they were precovenant. Abraham is not alone in illustrating moments of greatness intermingled with moments of disobedience and shortsightedness. This inconsistency is also present in the NT, say, in 1 Corinthians, in which a congregation of believers, styled by Paul as \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93sanctified in Christ Jesus\u8221\'94 (1 Cor. 1:1), finds itself involved in all sorts of unsanctified circumstances, from dissensions to litigation to immorality. In the case of OT instances of such Jekyl-and-Hyde behavior, it would appear that the only beacon of hope for a more consistent, God-glorifying covenant life-style is that envisioned by the provisions of promised new covenant (Jer. 31:31\endash 34; Ezek. 36:22\endash 32; Joel 3:1\endash 4 [Eng. 2:28\endash 32]). In the NT instances such behavior must been seen as an aberration, rather than as an expected, normal pattern of the justified life. Indeed, Rom. 7:13ff. is the main Pauline passage used within Lutheran and Reformed traditions to buttress the concept of the bondage of the will, even the will of the redeemed. It pictures a seething, civil war raging within the life of Paul, resulting in failure to do the good and an inability not to do the evil.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 I am inclined to believe that what Paul does in the autobiographical section of Rom. 7:13ff. is to trace his unregenerate experience while under law, before Christ, not his experience under Christ. I would suggest this view primarily on the grounds that the order in chs. 6 and 7 is logical rather than psychological or historical. Paul\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s statements about justification and sanctification (ch. 6) raise questions about law (ch. 7), particularly whether Paul is implying that the law is evil. The natural thing to do in answering such a question is to talk about his experience under the law.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Hamilton, V. P. (1995). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/nicot01ge2?ref=BibleBHS.Ge20.2&off=1513&ctx=+previous+mistakes.+~If+one+views+them+as"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Book of Genesis, Chapters 18\endash 50\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (pp. 59\endash 60). Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}