{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 The Sacrifice of Isaac}
\par\pard\plain \qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs36\b1 22\~}{\f0\fs24 After these things God tested Abraham and said to him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Abraham!\u8221\'94 And he said, \u8220\'93Here I am.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 2\~}{\f0\fs24 He said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 3\~}{\f0\fs24 So Abraham rose early in the morning, saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and his son Isaac. And he cut the wood for the burnt offering and arose and went to the place of which God had told him. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 4\~}{\f0\fs24 On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place from afar. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 5\~}{\f0\fs24 Then Abraham said to his young men, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Stay here with the donkey; I and the boy will go over there and worship and come again to you.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 6\~}{\f0\fs24 And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac his son. And he took in his hand the fire and the knife. So they went both of them together. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 7\~}{\f0\fs24 And Isaac said to his father Abraham, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93My father!\u8221\'94 And he said, \u8220\'93Here I am, my son.\u8221\'94 He said, \u8220\'93Behold, the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 8\~}{\f0\fs24 Abraham said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93God will provide for himself the lamb for a burnt offering, my son.\u8221\'94 So they went both of them together. }
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 9\~}{\f0\fs24 When they came to the place of which God had told him, Abraham built the altar there and laid the wood in order and bound Isaac his son and laid him on the altar, on top of the wood. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 10\~}{\f0\fs24 Then Abraham reached out his hand and took the knife to slaughter his son. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 11\~}{\f0\fs24 But the angel of the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  called to him from heaven and said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Abraham, Abraham!\u8221\'94 And he said, \u8220\'93Here I am.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 12\~}{\f0\fs24 He said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Do not lay your hand on the boy or do anything to him, for now I know that you fear God, seeing you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 13\~}{\f0\fs24 And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him was a ram, caught in a thicket by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt offering instead of his son. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 14\~}{\f0\fs24 So Abraham called the name of that place, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  will provide\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94; as it is said to this day, \u8220\'93On the mount of the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  it shall be provided.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 15\~}{\f0\fs24 And the angel of the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24  called to Abraham a second time from heaven }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 16\~}{\f0\fs24 and said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93By myself I have sworn, declares the }{\f0\fs24\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24 , because you have done this and have not withheld your son, your only son, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 17\~}{\f0\fs24 I will surely bless you, and I will surely multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven and as the sand that is on the seashore. And your offspring shall possess the gate of his enemies, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 18\~}{\f0\fs24 and in your offspring shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because you have obeyed my voice.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 19\~}{\f0\fs24 So Abraham returned to his young men, and they arose and went together to Beersheba. And Abraham lived at Beersheba. }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 20\~}{\f0\fs24 Now after these things it was told to Abraham, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Behold, Milcah also has borne children to your brother Nahor: }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 21\~}{\f0\fs24 Uz his firstborn, Buz his brother, Kemuel the father of Aram, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 22\~}{\f0\fs24 Chesed, Hazo, Pildash, Jidlaph, and Bethuel.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 23\~}{\f0\fs24 (Bethuel fathered Rebekah.) These eight Milcah bore to Nahor, Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s brother. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 24\~}{\f0\fs24 Moreover, his concubine, whose name was Reumah, bore Tebah, Gaham, Tahash, and Maacah. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Ge22.1&off=2818"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Ge 22:1\endash 24). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}