{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2. God wanted to show\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 forever picture\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 that the sacrifice He wants is a spiritual and living sacrifice. God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s concern is the spiritual sacrifice of man\u8217\'92s body, not a human sacrifice. God wants man to offer his body as a living sacrifice. God does not want people offering their children and beautiful women to God by laying them upon altars and killing them. God wants people offering themselves and their children and beautiful women as living sacrifices to Him.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service\u8221\'94 (Ro. 12:1)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 3. God wanted to show\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 forever picture\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the sacrifice of Christ at Calvary, the sacrifice of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s very own Son for the sins of the world. There are many similarities between the offering of Abraham\u8217\'92s son, Isaac, and the offering of God\u8217\'92s Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. The similarities will be covered below. (See note, pt. 3, Thought 1\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 22:11\endash 14 for discussion.)}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 4. God wanted to show\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 forever picture\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 that He does test people; He tests them to show the world that some persons do fear God. By }{\f0\fs24\i1 fear}{\f0\fs24  is meant reverence, love, awe, and true worship\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 all that true religion is. This was the very reason God gave for testing Abraham: verse one says that God tested Abraham and verse twelve tells why God tested him, to show that Abraham feared (reverenced, loved) God above all else, even above his very own son. This fact is discussed in more detail below (see note\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 22:1\endash 2 for more discussion).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24  This is the subject of this great passage: }{\f0\fs24\i1 Abraham Sacrificed Isaac: Supreme, Sacrificial Faith\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the Steps to Absolute Surrender}{\f0\fs24 , 22:1\endash 24.}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1.\tab Step 1: facing God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s demand for absolute sacrifice, His highest demand (vv. 1\endash 2).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2.\tab Step 2: thinking through the sacrifice (vv. 3\endash 4).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 3.\tab Step 3: trusting God and His power to raise up and use the sacrifice (vv. 5\endash 8).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 4.\tab Step 4: following through with the sacrifice (vv. 9\endash 10).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 5.\tab Step 5: experiencing God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s acceptance and provision (vv. 11\endash 14).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 6.\tab Step 6: having God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promises renewed to one\u8217\'92s heart (vv. 15\endash 18).}
\par\pard\plain \tx720\li720\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 7.\tab Conclusion: receiving good news (vv. 19\endash 24).}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (Please note: a person may wish to divide this passage into two or three messages or lessons. If so, the following is suggested:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Part 1 could cover just point 1 of the outline, vv. 1\endash 2.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Part 2 could cover points 2\endash 4 of the outline, vv. 3\endash 10.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Part 3 could cover points 5\endash 6, vv. 11\endash 24.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Of course, other divisions are possible, as well as the teaching of the passage as a whole. May our wonderful Lord help us share with power the great truths pictured so graphically in this most startling passage.)\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge22.1-24&off=7003&ctx=+sacrifice+for+man.%0a~2.+God+wanted+to+sho"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 133). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 1}{\f0\fs24  (22:1\endash 2) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Testing\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Surrender\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Dedication\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Sacrifice\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Religions, False\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Human Sacrifice}{\f0\fs24 : step one to absolute surrender is facing God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s demand for absolute sacrifice, His supreme highest demand.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. God tested Abraham, put him in a severe crisis. Remember, this was not the only major test or crisis Abraham had to face (see }{\f3\fs20\scaps Deeper Study}{\f3\fs20  # 1}{\f0\fs24 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 22:1\endash 2 for more discussion). J. Vernon McGee says this:}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\i1 This is a real crisis in Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s life. God has brought this man through four very definite crises, each of which was a real exercise of his soul, a real strain upon his heart}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab }{\f0\fs24\i1 First of all, he was called to leave all of his relatives in Ur of the Chaldees. He was just to leave the whole group. That was a real test for Abraham. He didn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t do it very well at the beginning, but, nevertheless, the break finally came}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab }{\f0\fs24\i1 Then there was the test that came with Lot, his nephew. Abraham loved Lot\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 he wouldn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t have been carrying Lot around with him if he hadn\u8217\'92t. But the time came when they had to separate, and Lot went down to Sodom}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab }{\f0\fs24\i1 Then there was the test with this boy of his, the son of Hagar, Ishmael. Abraham just cried out to God, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Oh, that Ishmael might live before Thee!\u8221\'94 He loved that boy; he hated to be separated from him}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab }{\f0\fs24\i1 Now Abraham comes to this supreme test, the fourth great crisis in his life: he is asked to give up Isaac. Abraham does not quite understand all the details for the very simple reason that God has told him, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91In Isaac your seed shall be called.\u8217\'92 Abraham believed God would raise Isaac from the dead (see He. 11:19), but as far as Abraham is concerned, he is willing to go through with the sacrifice}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 b. God asked Abraham to do a most difficult thing: to offer his son as a sacrifice to God, the son whom he loved ever so dearly. Note how God stressed Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s love for his son: take your son, }{\f0\fs24\i1 whom you love}{\f0\fs24 , and offer him as a sacrifice. Abraham was given Isaac in his old age (Ge. 21:2, 5). He had been hoping for the promised son for decades, and he had all his dreams wrapped up in him. Why would God demand such a thing from Abraham?}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Very simply, God was putting Abraham to the supreme test of life, the absolute sacrifice and surrender of himself to God. Step by step God led him to the point of absolute surrender. How?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1)\tab God led Abraham to absolute surrender by taking the most precious thing in his life and leading him to surrender that thing as an offering, as a sacrifice to God. It was Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s heart, his willingness, his spiritual surrender that God was after, not Isaac\u8217\'92s life. (See the passages forbidding human sacrifice\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Le. 18:21; 20:1\endash 5; De. 12:31; 18:10.)}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2)\tab God led Abraham to absolute surrender by testing him within his environment. God always has to use the language and the things of a man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s environment if He wishes His message to be communicated and understood. In Abraham\u8217\'92s day the sacrifice of human beings was the supreme act of worship by some heathen religions, for example Canaanite religions. A worshipper who offered his own flesh and blood was thought to be offering the supreme sacrifice. He was proving that he loved his god supremely, above all else.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 When God told Abraham to sacrifice Isaac, Abraham knew exactly what God was saying to him. He was to make the supreme sacrifice, prove that he loved the only true and living God above all else. Abraham knew that God was after the absolute surrender of his heart, his will, his spirit. Verse five compared with He. 11:19 shows this (see note below\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 22:5\endash 8).}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . God did not test Abraham that Abraham might prove himself to God. God knew Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s heart. God knows all things. But Abraham needed to know his own heart, and all future believers needed a picture of what absolute surrender to God means, a testimony that man can love God supremely. Man can make an absolute surrender and sacrifice of himself to God (all he is and has), and God can take care of him, no matter what may confront him. Thus the testing of Abraham took place in order }{\f0\fs24\i1 to show}{\f0\fs24  and teach several things to both Abraham and succeeding generations.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (1)\tab Abraham demonstrated that a person can know God personally. A person can actually have a personal relationship with God. This is shown by the name used for God (Ha \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Elohim) (v. 1). The Hebrew name here stresses the personal, true God. It was the personal, true God (Ha \u8216\'91Elohim) who spoke to Abraham, not just God (Elohim, the general name used for God).}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup [fellowship] with him, and he with me\u8221\'94 (Re. 3:20)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name\u8221\'94 (Jn. 1:12)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (2)\tab Abraham demonstrated that a person can love God supremely. A person can love God before all else, even before his son or daughter (Ge. 22:2, 10). (See outline and notes\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Mt. 10:35\endash 37 for more information.)}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me: and he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me\u8221\'94 (Mt. 10:37)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind\u8221\'94 (Mt. 22:37)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (3)\tab Abraham demonstrated that a person can glorify God above all else. A person can glorify God by obeying God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s Word just as it is given, no matter the cost (Ge. 22:2, 10).}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven\u8221\'94 (Mt. 7:21)\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge22.1-2&off=0&ctx=startling+passage.)%0a~1+(22:1%E2%80%932)+Testing%E2%80%94S"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 134\endash 135). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (4)\tab Abraham demonstrated that a person can reach an unusual height of spiritual maturity, a maturity that stands out as a great testimony for God (Ge. 22:2, 5, 7\endash 8, 10\endash 11, 13\endash 14).}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven\u8221\'94 (Mt. 5:16)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect\u8221\'94 (Mt. 5:48)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And he said to [them] all, If any [man] will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me\u8221\'94 (Lu. 9:23)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you: and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth\u8221\'94 (Ac. 1:8)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And he said, The God of our fathers hath chosen thee, that thou shouldest know his will, and see that Just One, and shouldest hear the voice of his mouth. For thou shalt be his witness unto all men of what thou hast seen and heard\u8221\'94 (Ac. 22:14\endash 15)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Ye are my witnesses, saith the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1 , and my servant whom I have chosen: that ye may know and believe me, and understand that I am he: before me there was no God formed, neither shall there be after me\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Is. 43:10)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (5)\tab Abraham demonstrated that a person can be completely surrendered to God. A person can give back to God the greatest gift of all, the very gift that God had given the person in the first place, his body and his life (Ge. 22:1\endash 2, 9\endash 10). A person can make the absolute sacrifice of himself to God (Ge. 22:1f).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge22.1-2&off=6211&ctx=rams%E2%80%9D+(1+S.+15:22).%0a~(4)+Abraham+demonstr"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 135). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (6)\tab Abraham demonstrated that a person\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faith can be victorious over all, no matter the trial (Ge. 22:1f).}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Now thanks be unto God, which always causeth us to triumph in Christ, and maketh manifest the savour of his knowledge by us in every place\u8221\'94 (2 Co. 2:14).}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world: and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. Who is he that overcometh the world, but he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God?\u8221\'94 (1 Jn. 5:4\endash 5).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 (7)\tab Abraham demonstrated that a person can put God first, before all else, no matter the cost (Ge. 22:1\endash 2, 9\endash 10).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge22.1-2&off=8170&ctx=s%E2%80%9D+(1+Co.+6:19%E2%80%9320).%0a~(6)+Abraham+demonstr"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 135). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 2}{\f0\fs24  (22:3\endash 4) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Sacrifice\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Thinking\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Trials}{\f0\fs24 : step two to absolute surrender is thinking through the sacrifice. God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s instructions had pierced Abraham\u8217\'92s heart, cut him to the core. He was hurting within, suffering the most severe pain imaginable. His thoughts were bound to be bouncing around wondering, questioning:}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab How could God tell me to offer my son as a sacrifice?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Is this not against God\u8217\'92s law that forbids murder (Ge. 9:5\endash 6)?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab How can I sacrifice my own son, the son of my heart and of my life? Would I not rather die myself than him?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Why would God want such a thing? Why, O God, why?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab What about the promise? God, you promised and gave Your Word that Isaac was }{\f0\fs24\i1 the promised son}{\f0\fs24 , that he was to be the father of nations, that through his descendents the promised seed would come, the Savior of the World? If I sacrifice Isaac, how can all this happen? How can you fulfill your promise?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab How can I ever face Sarah again, or for that matter, face anyone?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab And what about my testimony before the world? What are the unbelievers going to think\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 all those who know me, all the Canaanites, Egyptians, Philistines, and others? What kind of testimony will this be to them?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab God, sacrificing Isaac }{\f0\fs24\i1 does not match}{\f0\fs24  your promise. I cannot reconcile all this in my mind. How can you fulfill your promise if I do this thing? How could you ask me to sacrifice Isaac? What do you mean? What are you after? What are you doing?}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 On and on, the rampaging thoughts and questions must have flooded Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s mind. But note: his questions\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 his inability to resolve the problem\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 did not keep Abraham from obeying God. Abraham obeyed God. He did not understand; nevertheless, he set about doing exactly what God had told him to do.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge22.3-4&off=0&ctx=of+the+commentary.%0a%0a~2+(22:3%E2%80%934)+Sacrifice"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 135\endash 136). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . The sacrifice of our lives to God\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 making an absolute surrender\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 demands thought, the deepest and most serious thought possible. Any person who hears God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s call to absolute surrender\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 to sacrifice his life totally to God\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 must know what he is doing. He must think through God\u8217\'92s call, just what it means to totally sacrifice his life to God; what it means to give up his life, to make an absolute surrender to God.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And he said to [them] all, If any [man] will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me\u8221\'94 (Lu. 9:23)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Meditate upon these things; give thyself wholly to them; that thy profiting may appear to all\u8221\'94 (1 Ti. 4:15)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be acceptable in thy sight, O }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1 , my strength, and my redeemer\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Ps. 19:14)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93O that they were wise, that they understood this, that they would consider their latter end!\u8221\'94 (De. 32:29)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Only fear the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1 , and serve him in truth with all your heart: for consider how great things he hath done for you\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (1 S. 12:24)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Hearken unto this, O Job: stand still, and consider the wondrous works of God\u8221\'94 (Job 37:14)}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge22.3-4&off=2583&ctx=f+to+God%E2%80%99s+command.%0a~Thought+1.+The+sacri"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 136). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 3}{\f0\fs24  (22:5\endash 8) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Trust\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Faith\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 God, Power\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Resurrection}{\f0\fs24 : step three to absolute surrender is trusting God, His power to raise up and use the sacrifice. Abraham trusted God, trusted every Word that God had said.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. Abraham believed that God would raise up Isaac from the dead, if need be (v. 5). An astonishing belief; nevertheless, it is exactly what Scripture says. Note verse five: Abraham instructed the servants to wait at the bottom of the mountain while he and Isaac went to the top and worshipped. He then said that both he and Isaac would return. Abraham was not lying to the men; he }{\f0\fs24\i1 actually believed}{\f0\fs24  they both would return. Hebrews tells us what Abraham was thinking: God would raise Isaac from the dead, if need be (He. 11:17\endash 19).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The point is this: Abraham knew that God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s Word\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 His promise\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 was true: his son would live and give rise to nations of people and to the promised seed, the Savior of the world. Therefore, God would raise Isaac from the dead, if need be, to fulfill His promise. Abraham\u8217\'92s trust in God had grown so much that he actually believed that God would resurrect Isaac. He was learning\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 really learning\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 what total surrender meant. Abraham was casting himself completely upon God.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Keep in mind, Abraham had never seen any person raised from the dead. But the thought crossed his mind, and he gave great thought to the idea. He believed that God would raise Isaac in order to fulfill His promise. What faith! What great belief in God and His promises, in God and His power! Note how Abraham was surrendering to God all the way through this experience.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge22.5-8&off=0&ctx=f+God%E2%80%9D+(Job+37:14).%0a~3+(22:5%E2%80%938)+Trust%E2%80%94Fai"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 136). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . What is it that stirs us to sacrifice our lives to God, to make an absolute surrender to Him? Trust, believing that God has the power to raise us up and use us. And God does: He does have the power to take our lives, raise them up, and use them for good throughout the whole world. We must, therefore, trust God and sacrifice our lives in absolute surrender to Him\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 for the sake of the world, the needy and lost of the world.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Oh how great is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee; which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of men!\u8221\'94 (Ps. 31:19)}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge22.5-8&off=2978&ctx=promises%2c+His+Word.%0a~Thought+1.+What+is+i"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 137). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 4}{\f0\fs24  (22:9\endash 10) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Sacrifice\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Surrender}{\f0\fs24 : step four to absolute surrender is following through with the sacrifice. This is the most important step in sacrificing one\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s life to God, in making the absolute surrender to God. It had been three days since God had instructed Abraham to make the supreme sacrifice, to offer his own son as a sacrifice to God. Abraham had three long days to agonize over the matter. For three days\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 days that had passed far too quickly\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Abraham had taken weary step after weary step, with a heart so heavy that he must have felt as though it would burst. Now, father and son had reached the fatal place.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge22.9-10&off=0&ctx=life%E2%80%9D+(1+Jn.+2:25).%0a~4+(22:9%E2%80%9310)+Sacrific"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 137). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Have you offered up your life as a sacrifice to God? Have you made the absolute surrender of your life to God? Have I?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Do we love God more than anything?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Are we willing to sacrifice ourselves totally for God and His cause?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Are we willing to sacrifice everything for God\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 to actually give God everything\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 our lives and our possessions?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Again, are we willing to sacrifice everything for God\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 all our possessions\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 in order to take the gospel of God\u8217\'92s Son to the uttermost part of the earth?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Are we willing to obey God totally, no matter the cost?}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Are we totally surrendered\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 absolutely surrendered\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 to God?}
\par\pard\plain \li720\fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Abraham was; we must be. We must give ourselves totally to God. We must give all that we possess\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 everything\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 to get the Word of God out to the whole world.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And he said to [them] all, If any [man] will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me\u8221\'94 (Lu. 9:23)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93For whosoever will save his life shall lose it: but whosoever will lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it. For what is a man advantaged, if he gain the whole world, and lose himself, or be cast away?\u8221\'94 (Lu. 9:24\endash 25)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93For whosoever will save his life shall lose it: and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it\u8221\'94 (Mt. 16:25)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Then Peter began to say unto him, Lo, we have left all, and have followed thee\u8221\'94 (Mk. 10:28)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93If any [man] come to me, and hate not his father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple. And whosoever doth not bear his cross, and come after me, cannot be my disciple\u8221\'94 (Lu. 14:26\endash 27)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93So likewise, whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple\u8221\'94 (Lu. 14:33)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And he said unto them, Verily I say unto you, There is no man that hath left house, or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children, for the kingdom of God\u8217\'92s sake, who shall not receive manifold more in this present time, and in the world to come life everlasting\u8221\'94 (Lu. 18:29\endash 30)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 2}{\f0\fs24 . Matthew Henry has a graphic description of this event:\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge22.9-10&off=2487&ctx=surrendered+to+God.%0a~Thought+1.+Have+you+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 137\endash 138). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs32\b1 5}{\f0\fs24  (22:11\endash 14) }{\f0\fs24\b1 Acceptance}{\f0\fs24 : step five to absolute surrender is experiencing God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s acceptance and provision. Now comes the great joy of sacrificing everything to God.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 a. God accepted the sacrifice and surrender of Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s heart. He called out to stop Abraham from sacrificing Isaac. When Abraham reached out and took the knife to slay his son, God knew that Abraham was totally surrendered to Him. God knew that Abraham\u8217\'92s heart belonged to Him\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 totally and absolutely. Nothing, absolutely nothing, stood between Abraham and God. Abraham would sacrifice anything and do anything for God. Abraham would obey God, no matter the sacrifice or cost. God was the most precious person and the most treasured thing in Abraham\u8217\'92s life.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Note that God acknowledged this. He knew \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab that Abraham feared God\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 reverenced and trusted God\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 above all else (v. 12)}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \bullet \tab that Abraham loved God more than his own son (v. 12)}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Within his heart, Abraham had offered the supreme sacrifice to God. Within his heart, Abraham had made the absolute surrender of himself to God.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The point is this: God is after the hearts of people, the surrender of their spirits to Him, not the slaying of their bodies.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab God wants living sacrifices, not dead sacrifices.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab God wants the bodies of people, but He wants living bodies, not dead bodies.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab God wants a human sacrifice, but He wants the sacrifices living, not dead.}
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 God wants people to sacrifice their lives\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 their hearts, spirits, and bodies\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 to Him. He wants people to surrender themselves\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 totally and absolutely, but He wants them living, not dead. God accepts a living sacrifice, not a dead one\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge22.11-14&off=0&ctx=+to+his+holy+will.4%0a~5+(22:11%E2%80%9314)+Accepta"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 138). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . God accepted the sacrifice of Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s heart. It is always the willingness, the surrender of the heart that makes the offering of a sacrifice acceptable to God. God is after the heart, not the sacrifice. Our hearts must reach out to God before we lay a sacrifice before God.}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And Samuel said, Hath the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1  as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1 ? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (1 S. 15:22)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\pard\plain \li1440\fi360\ri360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93For thou desirest not sacrifice; else would I give it: thou delightest not in burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit: a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise\u8221\'94 (Ps. 51:16\endash 17)}{\f0\fs24 .}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93To do justice and judgment is more acceptable to the }{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b1  than sacrifice\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Pr. 21:3)}{\f0\fs24 .\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge22.11-14&off=1787&ctx=ervice%E2%80%9D+(Ro.+12:1).%0a~Thought+1.+God+accep"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, p. 139). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \li720\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24 . Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s offering his son Isaac is a picture of God offering His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, as a sacrifice for man. The sacrifice of Isaac is a type\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 a symbol, a picture, a prophecy\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 of the sacrifice of Christ at Calvary, the sacrifice of God\u8217\'92s very own Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, for the sins of the world.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abraham was asked to give up his most cherished possession to God; God has given up His most cherished possession to man (vv. 1\endash 2).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abraham was asked to sacrifice his own son for God; God has sacrificed His only Son for man (v. 2, see Jn. 3:16; Ro. 8:32).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abraham believed that God would raise up his son, if need be; God did raise up His own Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Note: it can even be said that Isaac was }{\f0\fs24\i1 as good as dead}{\f0\fs24  (sacrificed) in the heart of Abraham during the three days of traveling before the resurrection. The resurrection of both Isaac and Christ took place three days after their death (v. 5).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Isaac was apparently willing to obey God and be sacrificed, for there is no evidence of a struggle. Isaac was obedient to death even as Christ was obedient to death (Ph. 2:5\endash 8).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab The ram was provided as a substitute for Isaac; the lamb of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, was provided as a substitute for all mankind (v. 13, see Jn. 1:29; Is. 53:5\endash 7).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Isaac carried the wood upon which he was to be laid as a sacrifice; Christ carried the cross upon which He was to be hung as the sacrifice for the sins of the world (v. 6).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abraham offered Isaac as a sacrifice upon Mt. Moriah, the very mountain upon which Jerusalem was built (2 Chr. 3:1); God offered up Christ on Calvary, right outside Jerusalem, upon the very same mountain ridge or range where Isaac was offered (v. 2). (Note: this tells us why God had Abraham travel three days to offer Isaac on Mt. Moriah. The offering of Isaac was planned by God to be a type of God\u8217\'92s offering of Christ.}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abraham called Mt. Moriah }{\f0\fs24\i1 Jehovah-Jireh, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the }{\f0\fs24\i1\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\i1  will provide}{\f0\fs24 .\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 God }{\f0\fs24\i1 provided}{\f0\fs24  a substitutionary sacrifice for Abraham; God has provided a substitutionary sacrifice for us in the Lord Jesus Christ (vv. 13\endash 14).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Isaac was to bear the consuming fire of Abraham; Jesus Christ has borne the consuming fire of God\u8217\'92s holiness and judgment against sin (the Bible often uses fire to symbolize the holiness and judgment of God) (v. 6).}
\par\pard\plain \tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8658\'3F\tab Abraham received the great joy of God\u8217\'92s promise because he willingly sacrificed his will to God\u8217\'92s will; Jesus Christ is to experience the fulfillment of His joy because He totally surrendered His will to God\u8217\'92s will and sacrificed Himself for the sins of the world (vv. 15\endash 18, see He. 12:2).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge22.11-14&off=5577&ctx=instead+of+his+son.%0a~Thought+1.+Abraham%E2%80%99s"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 139\endash 140). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}