{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 SBL Hebrew;}{\f5\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f6\ftech\fcharset0\fprq2 LogosSymbolUnicode;}{\f7\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Serto Jerusalem;}{\f8\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Abyssinica SIL;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;\red240\green240\blue240;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 4. God wanted to show\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 forever picture\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 that He does test people; He tests them to show the world that some persons do fear God. By }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 fear}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  is meant reverence, love, awe, and true worship\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 all that true religion is. This was the very reason God gave for testing Abraham: verse one says that God tested Abraham and verse twelve tells why God tested him, to show that Abraham feared (reverenced, loved) God above all else, even above his very own son. This fact is discussed in more detail below (see note\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 22:1\endash 2 for more discussion).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0


\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clcbpat4\cellx4000

\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\scaps\cb4\highlight4 Deeper Study}{\f0\fs24\b1\cb4\highlight4  # 1}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 (22:1\endash 2) }{\f0\fs24\b1\cb4\highlight4 Testing\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Crises}{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 : the life of Abraham gives an excellent study on the tests or crises of life. It is important to note that every crisis and problem in human life is not a test from God. We often bring crises upon ourselves because of our sin and disobedience to God. But there are times when God does test us, and we need to understand this fact.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\fi360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 1. Note how God tests a person.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 a.\tab God tests a person by initiating the test Himself, as in this case with Abraham offering Isaac as a sacrifice.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 b.\tab God tests a person by allowing the crisis to arise from natural or human events. Examples of this are seen in point three of this note.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 c.\tab In some cases, God allows Satan to create a crisis that tests the faith and loyalty of believers. The book of }{\f0\fs24\i1\cb4\highlight4 Job}{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4  shows this.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\fi360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 2. Now note why God tests believers (see note 1\endash 1 Pe. 4:12 for more discussion; also see Master Subject Index, }{\f0\fs24\i1\cb4\highlight4 Test\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 Testing}{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 , The Purpose of Testing).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 a.\tab God tests believers to make them stronger. When a person endures and conquers a crisis, he is inwardly stronger than ever before. He is far more able to conquer crises in the future.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li1800\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Though our outward man perish, yet the inward man is renewed day by day\u8221\'94 (2 Co. 4:16)}{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 .}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li1800\fi360\ri360\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me\u8221\'94 (2 Co. 12:9)}{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 .}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 b.\tab God tests believers to make them look forward to heaven more. Crises, especially severe crises of suffering, pain, and grief, make us long far more for heaven.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li1800\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory; while we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen: for the things which are seen are temporal; but the things which are not seen are eternal\u8221\'94 (2 Co. 4:17\endash 18)}{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 .}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li1800\fi360\ri360\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93By faith Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance, obeyed; and he went out, not knowing whither he went. By faith he sojourned in the land of promise, as in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise: for he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God\u8221\'94 (He. 11:8\endash 10)}{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 .}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\b1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country. And truly, if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out, they might have had opportunity to have returned. But now they desire a better country, that is, an heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God: for he hath prepared for them a city\u8221\'94 (He. 11:13\endash 16)}{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 .}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\b1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain: for the former things are passed away\u8221\'94 (Re. 21:4)}{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 .}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 c.\tab God tests believers to make them a greater witness to those around them. When a person endures and conquers a crisis, he is a testimony to others, a living example that a person can overcome the crises of this life.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li1800\fi360\ri360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort; who comforteth us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble, by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God\u8221\'94 (2 Co. 1:3\endash 4)}{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 .}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\fi360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 3. Note the tests that Abraham had to face throughout his life. He had to face crisis after crisis\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 major tests\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 all throughout his life, far more than the average person has to face. Abraham stands as a dynamic example in showing us how to conquer crisis after crisis. He conquered them all through the faith and power of God.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 a.\tab There was the crisis of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s call to separation. When God called Abraham to leave Ur of the Chaldees, he had to separate from his country and relatives, and from his father\u8217\'92s house, its possessions and property. He had to separate from all he had ever known. At first, Abraham showed weakness in accepting God\u8217\'92s call, but he finally passed the test and committed his life to God. (See outline and notes\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 12:4\endash 9.)}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 b.\tab There was the crisis of hunger and famine and of losing his business holdings. In fact, Abraham faced the loss of all he had. Abraham failed this test. He forsook the promised land and went down into Egypt (a symbol of the world and a life of worldliness) (see outline and notes\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 12:10\endash 13:4).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 c.\tab There was the crisis of Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s separation from Abraham. This separation was due to the materialistic and greedy nature of Lot. Abraham must have suffered unbearable pain when Lot chose the best ranch land and left the second best for Abraham. Abraham loved Lot like a son; therefore, he suffered excruciating pain when Lot forsook God to choose the world over God (see outline and notes\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 13:5\endash 18).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 d.\tab There was the crisis of the invading army from the East. Dealing with this crisis required great courage. The invaders captured all the citizens of the surrounding cities, including Lot. Not only was Abraham about to lose Lot, he was about to lose the markets for his business enterprises. All he had was again being threatened. Abraham met the crisis head-on and demonstrated unusual courage in defeating the invaders and in freeing the captives (see outline and notes\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 14:1\endash 16).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 e.\tab There was the crisis of seeking worldly honor, power, position, and riches. When Abraham defeated the invading armies, he could have become the ruler over much of the land, but he refused to run ahead of God and to use worldly methods to secure the promised land. Abraham passed this test (see outline and notes\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 14:17\endash 24).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 f.\tab There was the crisis of not having a son, of having to be patient enough to wait upon God and His timing for sending the promised son. This crisis required patience and belief. Abraham failed in this test and married Hagar and bore Ishmael (see outline and notes\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 16:1\endash 16).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 g.\tab There was the crisis of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s judgment and emotional security. This was the crisis of the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities. Their destruction left a devastation of the area that must have been horrible to look upon and emotionally disturbing (see Ge. 20:1\endash 2). Moreover, their destruction meant a crisis for Abraham\u8217\'92s business dealings: the major markets for his herds and other dealings were gone (see outline and notes\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 19:1\endash 38).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 h.\tab There was the crisis of again facing the loss of all he had. Abraham again forsook the promised land and went down to the capital of the Philistines in search of markets for his herds and business affairs (see outline and notes\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 20:1\endash 18).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 i.\tab There was the crisis of being separated and divorced from his loved ones. This was the crisis of having to send Hagar and his son Ishmael away. This meant that he would be separated forever from Hagar and his son Ishmael whom he loved ever so dearly (see outline and notes\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 21:8\endash 21).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\tx1080\li1080\fi-360\qj{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 j.\tab There was the supreme crisis of offering Isaac as a sacrifice to God. This required total commitment to God, being willing to sacrifice everything for God (see outline and notes\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 Ge. 22:1\endash 24).}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li720\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\b1\cb4\highlight4 Thought 1}{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 . Warren Wiersbe has given descriptive titles to the tests Abraham faced during his life. His commentary on the tests should be of real help as we face the trials and temptations of life.}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li1080\fi360\sb180\qj{\f0\fs24\i1\cb4\highlight4 In the \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93School of Faith\u8221\'94 we must have occasional tests, or we will never know where we are spiritually. Abraham had his share of tests right from the beginning. First was the \u8220\'93family test,\u8221\'94 when he had to leave his loved ones and step out by faith to go to a new land (Ge. 11:27\endash 12:5). This was followed by the \u8216\'91famine test,\u8217\'92 which Abraham failed because he doubted God and went down to Egypt for help (12:10\endash 13:4)}{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 .}
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1\li1080\fi360\qj{\f0\fs24\i1\cb4\highlight4 Once back in the land, Abraham passed the \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93fellowship test\u8221\'94 when he gave Lot first choice in using the pastureland (13:5\endash 18). He also passed the \u8220\'93fight test\u8221\'94 when he defeated the kings (14:1\endash 16) and the \u8216\'91fortune test\u8217\'92 when he said no to Sodom\u8217\'92s wealth (14:17\endash 24). But he failed the \u8216\'91fatherhood test\u8217\'92 when Sarah got impatient with God and suggested that Abraham have a child by Hagar (Ge. 16). When the time came to send Ishmael away, Abraham passed the \u8220\'93farewell test\u8221\'94 even though it broke his heart (21:14\endash 21)}{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 .}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\i1\cb4\highlight4 Not every difficult experience in life is necessarily a personal test from God. (Of course, any experience could become a test or a temptation, depending on how we deal with it. See James 1:12\endash 16.) Sometimes our own disobedience causes the pain or disappointment, as when Abraham went to Egypt (Ge. 12:10ff) and to Gerar (Ge. 20). Sometimes our hurts are simply a part of normal human life: As we grow older, friends and loved ones relocate or even die, life changes around us, and we must make painful adjustments}{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 .}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\i1\cb4\highlight4 Learn to distinguish between trials and temptations. Temptations come from our desires within us (James 1:12\endash 16) while trials come from the Lord who has a special purpose to fulfill. Temptations are used by the devil to bring out the worst in us, but trials are used by the Holy Spirit to bring out the best in us ([James] 1:1\endash 6). Temptations seem logical while trials seem very unreasonable. Why would God give Abraham a son and then ask Abraham to kill him?}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\i1\cb4\highlight4 All believers face similar temptations to sin (1 Co. 10:13), but not all believers experience the same trials of faith. God\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s testings are tailor-made for each child of God, and each experience is unique. God never asked Lot to face the tests that Abraham faced. Why? Because Lot was being tempted by the world and the flesh and never grew to the place of maturity that Abraham reached. In one sense, it is a compliment when God sends us a test; it shows God wants to \u8220\'93promote us\u8221\'94 in the \u8220\'93School of Faith.\u8221\'94 God never sends a test until He knows you are ready for it}{\f0\fs24\cb4\highlight4 .}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1{\f0\fs24\i1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93Life is difficult,\u8221\'94 wrote psychiatrist M. Scott Peck. \u8220\'93Once we truly know that life is difficult\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 once we truly understand and accept it\hich\f1 \emdash \loch\f1 then life is no longer difficult.\u8221\'94 That is the first lesson we must learn: Expect trials from God, because the Christian life is not easy.}{\f0\fs24\i1\super\cb4\highlight4 6\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Leadership Ministries Worldwide. (1996). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/posbkjv01ge2?ref=Bible.Ge22.19-24&off=669&ctx=+the+wife+of+Isaac.%0a~Deeper+Study+%23+1%0a(22"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf5 Genesis (Chapters 12\endash 50)\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (Vol. II, pp. 140\endash 142). Chattanooga, TN: Leadership Ministries Worldwide.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \intbl\itap1\f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \intbl\itap1{\f4\fs72 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1504\'3F\u1464\'3F\u1505\'3F\u1464\'3F\u1492\'3F}{\f0\fs24  S}{\f0\fs24\super 5254}{\f0\fs24  TWOT}{\f0\fs24\super 1373}{\f0\fs24  GK}{\f0\fs24\super 5814}{\f0\fs24 ] }{\f5\fs22\b1 vb. Pi.}{\f0\fs24  }{\f0\fs24\b1 test, try}{\f0\fs24  }{\f0\fs32\b1 (}{\f0\fs24 NH }{\f0\fs24\i1 id.}{\f0\fs24 , Pi.; }{\f6\fs24 \loch\af6\hich\af6\dbch\af6\uc1\u55349\'3F\u56599\'3F}{\f0\fs24  Pa. }{\f4\fs32 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1504\'3F\u1463\'3F\u1505\'3F\u1460\'3F\u1468\'3F\u1497\'3F}{\f0\fs24 ; Syriac Pa. }{\f7\fs72 \loch\af7\hich\af7\dbch\af7\uc1\u1826\'3F\u1840\'3F\u1827\'3F\u1850\'3F\u1821\'3F}{\f0\fs24  (}{\f0\fs24\i1 nasi}{\f0\fs24 ); cf. Ethiopic }{\f8\fs32 \loch\af8\hich\af8\dbch\af8\uc1\u4632\'3F\u4757\'3F\u4657\'3F\u4725\'3F}{\f0\fs24  (}{\f0\fs24\i1 mansut}{\f0\fs24 ) }{\f0\fs24\i1 temptation}{\f0\fs32\b1 )}{\f0\fs24 ;\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 }{\f5\fs22\b1 Pi.}{\f0\fs24  }{\f0\fs24\i1 Pf.}{\f0\fs24  3 ms. }{\f4\fs32 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1504\'3F\u1460\'3F\u1505\'3F\u1464\'3F\u1468\'3F\u1492\'3F}{\f0\fs24  Dt 4:34 + 3 times; sf. }{\f4\fs32 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1504\'3F\u1460\'3F\u1505\'3F\u1464\'3F\u1468\'3F\u1492\'3F\u1493\'3F\u1468\'3F}{\f0\fs24  Ex 15:25; 3 fs. }{\f4\fs32 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1504\'3F\u1460\'3F\u1505\'3F\u1456\'3F\u1468\'3F\u1514\'3F\u1464\'3F\u1492\'3F}{\f0\fs24  Dt 28:56; 1 s. }{\f4\fs32 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1504\'3F\u1460\'3F\u1505\'3F\u1460\'3F\u1468\'3F\u1497\'3F\u1514\'3F\u1460\'3F\u1497\'3F}{\f0\fs24  Ec 7:23, + 4 times Pf.; }{\f0\fs24\i1 Impf.}{\f0\fs24  3 ms. sf. }{\f4\fs32 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1497\'3F\u1456\'3F\u1504\'3F\u1463\'3F\u1505\'3F\u1461\'3F\u1468\'3F\u1501\'3F}{\f0\fs24  Dn 1:14; 1 s. }{\f4\fs32 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1488\'3F\u1458\'3F\u1504\'3F\u1456\'3F\u1505\'3F\u1462\'3F\u1468\'3F\u1492\'3F}{\f0\fs24  Ju 6:39; sf. }{\f4\fs32 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1488\'3F\u1458\'3F\u1504\'3F\u1463\'3F\u1505\'3F\u1456\'3F\u1468\'3F\u1499\'3F\u1464\'3F\u1492\'3F}{\f0\fs24  Ec 2:2; 3 mpl. }{\f4\fs32 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1497\'3F\u1456\'3F\u1504\'3F\u1463\'3F\u1505\'3F\u1468\'3F\u1493\'3F\u1468\'3F}{\f0\fs24  Nu 14:22; 2 mpl. }{\f4\fs32 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1514\'3F\u1456\'3F\u1468\'3F\u1504\'3F\u1463\'3F\u1505\'3F\u1468\'3F\u1425\'3F\u1493\'3F\u1468\'3F\u1503\'3F}{\f0\fs24  Ex 17:2, + 7 times Impf.; }{\f0\fs24\i1 Imv.}{\f0\fs24  }{\f4\fs32 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1504\'3F\u1463\'3F\u1505\'3F}{\f0\fs24  Dn 1:12; sf. }{\f4\fs32 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1504\'3F\u1463\'3F\u1505\'3F\u1461\'3F\u1468\'3F\u1504\'3F\u1460\'3F\u1497\'3F}{\f0\fs24  \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u968\'3F 26:2; }{\f0\fs24\i1 Inf. cstr.}{\f0\fs24  }{\f4\fs32 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1504\'3F\u1463\'3F\u1505\'3F\u1468\'3F\u1493\'3F\u1465\'3F\u1514\'3F}{\f0\fs24  Ex 20:20, + 8 times Inf.; }{\f0\fs24\i1 Pt.}{\f0\fs24  }{\f4\fs32 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1502\'3F\u1456\'3F\u1504\'3F\u1463\'3F\u1505\'3F\u1462\'3F\u1468\'3F\u1492\'3F}{\f0\fs24  Dt 13:4;\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 }{\f5\fs24\b1 1. }{\f0\fs24\i1 test, try}{\f0\fs24  (syn. }{\f4\fs32 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1489\'3F\u1495\'3F\u1503\'3F}{\f0\fs24 ), abs. 1 S 17:39 (equipment); c. }{\f4\fs32 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1489\'3F\u1456\'3F\u1468\'3F}{\f0\fs24  Ju 6:39 Ec 2:1; c. acc. Dn 1:12, 14; acc. + }{\f4\fs32 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1489\'3F\u1456\'3F\u1468\'3F}{\f0\fs24  1 K 10:1 = 2 Ch 9:1, Ec 2:1; 7:23. }{\f5\fs24\b1 2. }{\f0\fs24\i1 attempt, essay, try}{\f0\fs24  to do a thing, c. Inf. Dt 4:34 (c. }{\f4\fs32 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1500\'3F\u1456\'3F}{\f0\fs24 ) 28:56; c. acc. Jb 4:2 (}{\f0\fs24\i1 venture}{\f0\fs24  a word). }{\f5\fs24\b1 3. }{\f0\fs24\i1 test, try, prove, tempt}{\f0\fs24  [but not in modern sense of the word: v. Dr }{\f0\fs24\super Dt 6:16;}{\f0\fs24  }{\f0\fs24\super \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u968\'3F}{\f0\fs24  }{\f0\fs24\super 453, 483}{\f0\fs24 ] }{\f0\fs24\b1 a.}{\f0\fs24  God }{\f0\fs24\i1 tests}{\f0\fs24  or }{\f0\fs24\i1 proves}{\f0\fs24  Abr. Gn 22:1 (E), Isr. Ex 15:25; 20:20 (E), 16:4 (J), Dt 8:2, 16; 13:4; c. }{\f4\fs32 \loch\af4\hich\af4\dbch\af4\uc1\u1489\'3F\u1456\'3F\u1468\'3F}{\f0\fs24  Ju 2:22; 3:1, 4; tribe of Levi Dt 33:8 (poem); Hezekiah 2 Ch 32:31; psalmist \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u968\'3F 26:2. }{\f0\fs24\b1 b.}{\f0\fs24  Isr. }{\f0\fs24\i1 tests}{\f0\fs24 , or }{\f0\fs24\i1 tries}{\f0\fs24  God: Ex 17:2, 7; Nu 14:22 (J), Dt 6:16 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u968\'3F 78:18, 41, 56; 95:9; 106:14; so Ahaz, Is 7:12.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Brown, F., Driver, S. R., & Briggs, C. A. (1977). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/bdb?ref=BrownDriverBriggs.BDB+650.1&off=1185&ctx=%0a%E2%80%A0%5b~%D7%A0%D6%B8%D7%A1%D6%B8%D7%94+S%EF%BB%BF5254+TWOT%EF%BB%BF1373+GK%EF%BB%BF5814%5d+vb.+P"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf5 Enhanced Brown-Driver-Briggs Hebrew and English Lexicon\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  (p. 650). Oxford: Clarendon Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}\cell{
\trowd\trgaph0 \trautofit1\lastrow \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil \trbrdrb\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf3 \clcbpat4\cellx4000
\row}\pard
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24  (}{\f0\fs24\i1 n\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u257\'61s\u226\'E2}{\f0\fs24 ). vb. }{\f0\fs24\b1 test, try, tempt, put one to the test.}{\f0\fs24  }{\f0\fs24\i1 Describes God putting people to the test or people testing God.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\i1
\par\pard\plain \fi360\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The verb }{\f0\fs24\i1 n\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u257\'61s\u226\'E2}{\f0\fs24  can be used to describe the act of God testing individuals and groups, such as Abraham (Gen 22:1), Israel (in both the wilderness and the promised land; e.g., Exod 15:25; 16:4; Deut 8:2; Judg 3:4), the tribe of Levi (Deut 33:8), Hezekiah (2 Chr 32:31), and a psalmist (Psa 26:2). }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0 God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s testing has particular purposes: }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 to prevent people from sinning (Exod 20:20b); }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 to see whether they will follow God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s instructions (Exod 16:4); }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 to discover the motives of the heart and to keep his commandments (Deut 8:2; 2 Chr 32:31); }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 to do good in the end to those he tests (Deut 8:16); }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 and to see whether they love him wholeheartedly (Deut 13:4) and whether they will obey the his way (Judg 2:22; 3:4). }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 The verb }{\f0\fs24\i1 n\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u257\'61s\u226\'E2}{\f0\fs24  also refers on several occasions to Israel putting God to the test during the wilderness journey (e.g., Exod 17:7; Num 14:22; Deut 6:16; Psa 78:18; 95:9). It is used once to describe the occasion of Ahaz testing God (Isa 7:12).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24  The verb }{\f0\fs24\i1 n\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u257\'61s\u226\'E2}{\f0\fs24  can also be used in the sense of testing the feasibility of some actions or matters (Deut 4:34; 28:56; Judg 6:39; 1 Sam 17:39; Eccl 7:23).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  Kim, S. H. (2014). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/lxtheowrdbk?ref=biblio.at%3dTesting%7Cau%3dKim%2c%2520Sun%2520Hee&off=3797&ctx=%D7%A0%D6%B8%D7%A1%D6%B8%D7%94~+(na%CC%84sa%CC%82).+vb.+test%2c+try%2c+tempt%2c+pu"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0\cf5 Testing\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . D. Mangum, D. R. Brown, R. Klippenstein, & R. Hurst (Eds.), \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f3\fs24\b0\i1 Lexham Theological Wordbook\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}