{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The Hebrew word for \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93test\u8221\'94 is \u8220\'93nasah\u8221\'94, which also carries the sense \u8220\'93to prove\u8221\'94. When applied to God as the subject, testing takes on positive purposes. For instance, God often tests His children in order to make us more mature and to developer character (James 1:2-4). God also tests us in order to help us to develop an eternal perspective (2 Corinthians 4:17-18). In addition, the apostle Peter wrote that the testing of our faith proves its authenticity (1 Peter 1:6-7). Just as God did with Israel in the wilderness, testing also has the purpose of proving our love for and obedience to the Lord (Exodus 16:4). As Israel repeatedly did, we can negatively test God\u8217\'92s faithfulness through a lack of trust. The classic example of this can be found in Israel\u8217\'92s response to the spies\u8217\'92 report in Numbers 14:1-12.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We are told in James 1:2-4 that we should expect trials of various kinds to test our faith. Quite often, the trials we experience will come through people. At other times the trials may be comprised of difficult circumstances, such as financial hardship. Scripture also teaches us that trials may come through satanic opposition. Job serves as the classic example of one who suffered at the hands of the devil. Just as with Peter, the enemy of our souls desires to sift us as wheat, in the hopes that we will abandon the faith (Luke 22:31). He will often use persecutions to achieve this goal (Revelation 2:10).}}