{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 When confronted with God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s test to sacrifice Isaac, Abraham acts in obedience: \u8220\'93}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 So Abraham rose early in the morning, saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and his son Isaac. And he cut the wood for the burnt offering and arose and went to the place of which God had told him\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Genesis 22:3). Abraham likely tossed several questions in his mind: \u8220\'93How could God command me to sacrifice my promised son? Isn\u8217\'92t it against the Lord\u8217\'92s way to sacrifice humans? How will I be able to explain this to Sarah? Is this really the voice of the Lord?\u8221\'94 Whatever doubts or complaints he may have had, they did not prevent Abraham from obeying God. Through his actions, Abraham proved that his faith had reached  the level of sacrificial obedience.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We must keep in mind that lip service does not demonstrate the reality of a person\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faith in Jesus. The Lord warned }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Not everyone who says to me, \u8216\'91Lord, Lord,\u8217\'92 will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven\u8221\'94 (Matthew 7:21). In addition, merely holding on to right beliefs without a changed life puts one on par with the demons (James 2:14-26). Faith demands radical obedience. The Lord calls us to give Him our very lives - to be totally surrendered to the Lord and His purposes. The Lord puts it this way: \u8220\'93If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me\u8221\'94 (Mark 8:34). Following the Lord faithfully demands that we give up our agenda for the Lord\u8217\'92s agenda.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 As Abraham and Isaac drew near to their final destination, the extent of Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faith comes to light. Isaac takes inventory of the sacrifice materials and asks him about the lamb for the burnt offering. It\u8217\'92s missing! Abraham confidently responded, \u8220\'93}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 God will provide for himself the lamb for a burnt offering, my son\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Genesis 22:8). What an astonishing response! We have every reason to accept that Abraham truly believed that God would provide an offering. He was not lying, for according to the Hebrews writer \u8220\'93}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 He considered that God was able even to raise him from the dead, from which, figuratively speaking, he did receive him back\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (11:19). Abraham had reached the point in his faith that he absolutely believed in the all-powerful faithfulness of the Lord. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Christian friend, do you believe that the Lord has the power to raise you up and use you to accomplish His will? Have you offered yourself as a living sacrifice to God? Are you willing to obey God even if it cost you prestige, money and possessions? Our life motto should be \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93to live is Christ and to die is gain\u8221\'94 rather than \u8220\'93to live is to have power, comfort, riches, or approval and to die is horrible.\u8221\'94 This is what we see in Abraham\u8217\'92s example of faith.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}