{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs22\b1 I Never Knew You}
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 21\~}{\f0\fs24 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Not everyone who says to me, \u8216\'91Lord, Lord,\u8217\'92 will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 22\~}{\f0\fs24 On that day many will say to me, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name?\u8217\'92 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 23\~}{\f0\fs24 And then will I declare to them, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91I never knew you; depart from me, you workers of lawlessness.\u8217\'92 \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Mt7.21&off=0&ctx=l%EF%BB%BFby+their+fruits.+%0a~I+Never+Knew+You%0a21%C2%A0"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Mt 7:21\endash 23). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b1\super 34\~}{\f0\fs24 And calling the crowd to him with his disciples, he said to them, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 35\~}{\f0\fs24 For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospel\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s will save it. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 36\~}{\f0\fs24 For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul? }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 37\~}{\f0\fs24 For what can a man give in return for his soul? }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 38\~}{\f0\fs24 For whoever is ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him will the Son of Man also be ashamed when he comes in the glory of his Father with the holy angels.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Mk8.34&off=0&ctx=he+things+of+man.%E2%80%9D+%0a~34%C2%A0And+calling+the+c"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Mk 8:34\endash 38). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\super 17\~}{\f0\fs24 By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises was in the act of offering up his only son, }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 18\~}{\f0\fs24 of whom it was said, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Through Isaac shall your offspring be named.\u8221\'94 }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 19\~}{\f0\fs24 He considered that God was able even to raise him from the dead, from which, figuratively speaking, he did receive him back. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 20\~}{\f0\fs24 By faith Isaac invoked future blessings on Jacob and Esau. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 21\~}{\f0\fs24 By faith Jacob, when dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, bowing in worship over the head of his staff. }{\f1\fs24\b1\super 22\~}{\f0\fs24 By faith Joseph, at the end of his life, made mention of the exodus of the Israelites and gave directions concerning his bones. \{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0  \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/esv?ref=BibleESV.Heb11.17&off=0&ctx=d+for+them+a+city.+%0a~17%C2%A0By+faith+j%EF%BB%BFAbraha"}{\fldrslt\f3\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 The Holy Bible: English Standard Version\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0 . (2016). (Heb 11:17\endash 22). Wheaton: Standard Bible Society.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}}