{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}{\f5\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The success of this final test was recognized by another pronouncement of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s covenant promises for Abraham. God reaffirmed His promise to bless Abraham with descendants as numerous as the stars in the sky, and to bless the entire world through Abraham\u8217\'92s offspring. Just as it began, the story of Abraham ends with this promise of worldwide blessing (Gen 12:3; 22:18).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s initial promise to Abraham appeared unconditional. Nothing was required of Abraham for him to receive this blessing. However, over the course of multiple reiterations of the promise, God established that Abraham\u8217\'92s faithful obedience was a condition of his continued blessing. The test to sacrifice Isaac was the final proof of Abraham\u8217\'92s commitment to cling to God\u8217\'92s voice and follow His promise, no matter where it led or what it required (Gen 22:18).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Grigoni, M. R., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/csabraham?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-21&off=15389&ctx=verses+of+Psa+118.%0a%0a~The+success+of+this+"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Abraham: Following God\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Ge 21:1\endash 22:24). Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b0\i1 Study Questions}
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1.\tab Have you ever experienced a time when you were more focused on what God had provided for you in the past than on what He might have planned for you in the future?}
\par\pard\plain \li360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2.\tab Reflect on a time when you felt your faith was being tested. What made it difficult or easy for you to believe?\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Grigoni, M. R., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/csabraham?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-21&off=16218&ctx=quired+(Gen+22:18).%0a~Study+Questions%0a1.+H"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Abraham: Following God\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Ge 21:1\endash 22:24). Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f4\fs32\b0\i0 Throughout the Bible}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s willingness to sacrifice Isaac represents the highest expression of his faith in Genesis. The authors of the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps nt}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  similarly recognized this event as a preeminent example of faithfully responding to God. The author of Hebrews emphasizes how Abraham serves as an example for believers, writing, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the one who received the promises was ready to offer his one and only son\u8221\'94 (Heb 11:17). The very tension we identified earlier is present here: While God\u8217\'92s command to sacrifice Isaac seemed to jeopardize God\u8217\'92s promise to him, Abraham \u8220\'93was ready.\u8221\'94 His example encourages us to \u8220\'93run with patient endurance the race that has been set before us\u8221\'94 (Heb 12:1).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Grigoni, M. R., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/csabraham?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-21&off=16402"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Abraham: Following God\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Ge 21:1\endash 22:24). Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The authors of the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps nt}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  also believed Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s willingness to sacrifice Isaac foreshadowed the sacrifice of Jesus on the cross. Hebrews describes Isaac as Abraham\u8217\'92s \u8220\'93one and only son\u8221\'94 (Heb 11:17). The Greek term here, }{\f5\fs24\b0\i1 monogen\loch\af5\hich\af5\dbch\af5\uc1\u275\'65s}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , is used most often in the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps nt}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  to describe Jesus, God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s only begotten Son (see John 1:14; 3:16). Paul also describes God\u8217\'92s sending of Christ to redeem humanity as \u8220\'93He did not spare His own Son\u8221\'94 (Rom 8:32), phrasing that echoes God\u8217\'92s words to Abraham in Gen 22:16.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 While the sacrifice of Isaac came to be understood as foreshadowing Christ\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sacrifice, there was one major difference: Isaac was spared, whereas Christ was sacrificed. Abraham was willing to sacrifice his only son, but God intervened and provided a substitute for Isaac in the form of the ram (Gen 22:13). God loves us enough that He did not spare His only Son; instead, Christ took our place as }{\f5\fs24\b0\i1 our}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  substitute. And through the sacrifice of Christ, we have become heirs of the promise God first gave to Abraham and fulfilled through the redemption of Christ (Rom 8:17).}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b0\i1 Study Questions}
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1.\tab Read James 2:14\endash 26 and Rom 4:1\endash 25. How do you understand the interplay of faith and works as explained by James and Paul? What relevance does this have in your life?}
\par\pard\plain \li360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2.\tab In what ways does Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s willingness to sacrifice Isaac remind you of Christ\u8217\'92s sacrifice? In what ways are these sacrifices different?\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Grigoni, M. R., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/csabraham?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-21&off=18372&ctx=ficance+in+Christ.%0a%0a~The+authors+of+the+n"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Abraham: Following God\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Ge 21:1\endash 22:24). Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\b0\i1 Study Questions}
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1.\tab Can you think of a time when God called on you to exhibit extreme faith? How did you do it, and what was the result?}
\par\pard\plain \li360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2.\tab Think of an instance where you witnessed God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s deliverance in the midst of a struggle or trial. How did He deliver, and what did you learn about His character?}
\par\pard\plain \li360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= Grigoni, M. R., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/csabraham?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-21&off=22460&ctx=cult+circumstances.%0a~Study+Questions%0a1.+C"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Abraham: Following God\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Ge 21:1\endash 22:24). Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f4\fs32\b0\i0 Application}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s life is bracketed by examples of extreme faith. In Genesis 12:1, God told him to go to a foreign land, and in Gen 12:4, he obeyed without question. He left all he knew for the sake of obtaining God\u8217\'92s promise. In Genesis 22, after he finally received the promised son, Abraham was commanded to give Isaac up as a burnt offering. Despite the apparent absurdity of the request, Abraham complied without ever questioning God. He was confident that both he and Isaac would return\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 whether by resurrection or some other form of deliverance (see Heb 11:19).\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Grigoni, M. R., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/csabraham?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-21&off=22598"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Abraham: Following God\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Ge 21:1\endash 22:24). Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi360\sa160\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Despite his failures along the way, Abraham is remembered for these two successes\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 particularly his unflinching faith in Gen 22. After walking with God for 25 years, Abraham knew God could be trusted. Sacrificing Isaac wasn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t the first seemingly \u8220\'93crazy\u8221\'94 thing God asked him to do. God had commanded Abraham to leave the comforts of home and spend his life sojourning in tents; He had instructed him to travel with his family among potentially hostile enemies; He had ordered him to circumcise himself as a sign of His covenant of \u8220\'93blessing\u8221\'94; He had directed him to cast out his true firstborn son, Ishmael; and He had told him to conceive a child at the age of 100. Yet Abraham trusted God\u8217\'92s purposes through all these things and, in Gen 22, he complied without hesitation with God\u8217\'92s most shocking demand yet.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 Not only was God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s reputation for keeping His covenant at stake\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 He would have to undergo something similar in the future. Approximately 2,000 years later, in a situation that mirrored Abraham\u8217\'92s, God offered His own Son as a sacrifice for the sins of humanity. This connection is what makes Gen 22 so real for us. Abraham could have looked for an easy way out just as he did earlier in his life, but he didn\u8217\'92t. He had come to know God\u8217\'92s power and trusted Him to fulfill His promises.\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  Grigoni, M. R., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/csabraham?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-21&off=23337&ctx=+(see+Heb+11:19).%0a+%0a~Despite+his+failures"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Abraham: Following God\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Ge 21:1\endash 22:24). Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\plain {\f0\fs24 God commands us to trust in the sacrifice of His Son, and this can sometimes be difficult. There are certainly easier ways to get through life\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 ways that will allow for the kind of compromise and dishonesty that we observed earlier in Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s story. But none of these will get us where God wants us to be: with Him for eternity. Walter Brueggemann, a theologian and Bible commentator, summed up the situation well:}
\par\pard\plain \li360\sa160\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 The testing times for Israel and for all of us who are heirs of Abraham are those times when it is seductively attractive to find an easier, less demanding alternative to God. The testings which come in history (and which are from God) drive us to find out whether we mean what we say about our faith being grounded solely in the gospel.}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb180\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Following God is difficult, but Abraham knew he could trust God no matter what kind of test emerged. The same is true for us today. When our commitment is tested, we can look to examples like Abraham for the courage to persevere (see Rom 15:4; 1 Cor 10:11; Heb 12:1\endash 3). The same God who provided for Abraham in his most desperate hour (see Gen 22:13) also makes deliverance possible for us (see John 3:16\endash 17). As true children of Abraham\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 followers of God characterized by faith\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 we can demonstrate our devotion by an extreme faith in God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promises and sacrifice.}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sb360\ql\ltrch\loch {\f3\fs24\i1 Study Questions}
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 1.\tab How does the example of Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faith encourage you in your walk with God? How does God\u8217\'92s faithfulness to His promise strengthen your faith?}
\par\pard\plain \li360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \tx360\li360\fi-360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 2.\tab Read Hebrews 12:1\endash 3. How does the hostility Jesus endured affect your faith? How will remembering Christ\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sacrifice help you in times of testing?}
\par\pard\plain \li360\sa160\sb180\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \{\\Scrv_fn= Grigoni, M. R., Custis, M., Mangum, D., & Whitehead, M. M. (2012). \\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://ref.ly/logosres/csabraham?ref=Bible.Ge21.1-21&off=24629&ctx=lfill+His+promises.%0a~God+commands+us+to+t"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs24\b0\i1\ul\ulc0\cf3 Abraham: Following God\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s Promise\\end_Scrv_fn\}\{\\Scrv_fn=}}{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  (Ge 21:1\endash 22:24). Bellingham, WA: Lexham Press.\\end_Scrv_fn\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24}