{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. Through what means did God speak to Abraham and how did He reassure him?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2. What situations challenge your sense of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s protection? What Scriptures can you reflect on in order to gain reassurance?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 3. What solution did Abraham propose to the dilemma of being childless? What was God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s response?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 4. Can you think of a time when you doubted God? How did you respond? How did God reassure you through your doubts? }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 5. In verse 6, we learn that God counted Abraham as righteous. How does this point forward to what God will do in Jesus? See Galatians 3-4 and Romans 4. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 6. How did the Lord make a covenant with Abraham?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 7. What did God say would happen to Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s descendants? When and how was this fulfilled?}
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 8. What is the significance of the expression \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete?\u8221\'94 What does this say about the patience and judgment of God?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 9. Over time, the Lord progressively revealed to Abraham the specifics of the land promise. On a Bible map, locate the geographical locations identified by the Lord in verses 18-21.  }}