{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 1. Abraham worshiped God at an altar he had built near Bethel. What does this tell us about his character?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 2. Describe the conflict that arose between Abraham and Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s herdsmen. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 3. What did Abraham propose in response to the conflict? Why was it both generous and risky? What does it show regarding his faith in God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 4. Find three passages elsewhere in Scripture that show the importance of seeking and making peace with others.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 5. Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s choice reflects a consumerist attitude. In what ways are you tempted to follow selfish ambition? What rights are you willing to give up for the benefit of others?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 6. In what way does Abraham prefigure Christ\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s humility? See Philippians 2:3-11.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 7. How did God respond to Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s humility? }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 8. List and explain at least two passages elsewhere that deal with God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s response to humility.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 9. Lot made a decision to be in the company of men sinning greatly against the Lord. Looking forward to Genesis 14 and 19, what lessons can we learn from Lot about the danger of material attractions?}}