{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Now the LORD said to Abram, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Go from your country and your kindred and your father\u8217\'92s house to the land that I will show you. 2 And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. 3 I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed\u8221\'94 (Gen. 12:1-4).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s interactions with Abram begins not only with a command to leave his family and homeland - but He also commands Abram to go to a land God would show him. It should be noted that God had not provided Abram with the details of the promised land. Abram ventured into the unknown - he is merely pointed in the direction he should go, but given no information about his final destination. We read in Hebrews that \u8220\'93he went out, not knowing where he was going\u8221\'94 (11:8b). Following God under these circumstances demanded great faith on Abram\u8217\'92s part for he was dependent upon God for daily guidance, protection and sustenance. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Furthermore, God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise to provide Abram with a great nation presented a great challenge to his faith because Sarai was barren! Despite years of failing to produce children, Abram (and Sarai) did not surrender to unbelief. Instead, they set out on a journey that tested their faith in God\u8217\'92s promises to the limit. Consequently, Abram obedience will have a significant impact upon humanity.}}