{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 It\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s most likely that prior to God calling him Abram was an idolater given what we read in Joshua 24:2 - \u8220\'93Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, \u8216\'91Long ago, your fathers lived beyond the Euphrates, Terah, the father of Abraham and of Nahor; and they served other gods.\u8217\'92\u8221\'94 God\u8217\'92s call to Abram necessitated that he disavow any allegiance to the gods of his fathers. The call demanded that he separate himself from idolatry.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Separation from one\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s past sinful life is generally known as repentance. One key Hebrew word (\u353\'9A\u251\'FBb - \u8220\'93turn\u8221\'94) expresses repentance as turning away from the wrong path, i.e., sinful behavior, and turning back toward God (DiFransico, Lexham Theological Wordbook). The same idea is found in the New Testament with the Greek word metanoe\u333\'6F which means \u8220\'93to change one\u8217\'92s mind\u8221\'94, resulting in an re-orientation of one\u8217\'92s life (Bauer, A Greek-English Lexicon of the New Testament and Other Early Christian Literature, 640). Paul\u8217\'92s recognition of the Thessalonians conversion in 1 Thessalonians 1:9-10 highlights the nature of true repentance - \u8220\'93For they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God, and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come.\u8221\'94 Just as God commanded Abram to leave his past behind and center his life on God\u8217\'92s promise, Jesus commands his followers leave behind their past way of living to serve him(Mark 1:15; Luke 13:3). }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 As we will learn from the life of Abraham, repentance is not just a one-time event in the life of the Christian. Though known as the father of the faithful, Abraham suffered many faith failures. Each one proved to be a learning experience and over the course of his life Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s trust in God grew. As we come to awareness of the sins and vices that hinder and keep us from experiencing the joy of the Christian life, we realize that there exist much room for spiritual growth in our lives. We must resolve, through the power of the Holy Spirit, to eliminate sinful habits and attitudes that prevent us from fully pursuing the life God intends for us to live. On the other hand, we learn to develop and pursue a lifestyle that will bring honor to God. Just as He did with Abraham, God will provide us the grace to grow in our faith!}}