{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The account of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s interactions with Abram begins with a call for Abram to leave his ancestral people and homeland: \u8216\'91Now the LORD said to Abram, \u8220\'93Go from your country and your kindred and your father\u8217\'92s house to the land that I will show you\u8221\'94\u8217\'92(Gen. 12:1, }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ESV}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://43C28F56-1B92-497B-8A88-EE33CA7661C7"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 ).}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Leaving the comfort of home, family, and familiar surroundings can be quite a challenge because such a transition can remove one from the love, care, acceptance, and security of a strong support system - especially in ancient nomadic cultures. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 However, this is exactly what God demanded of Abram. The word \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93go\u8221\'94 is \u8220\'93lek-leka\u8221\'94 in Hebrew, which expresses that Abram is to \u8220\'93determinately dissociate himself\u8221\'94 from his current }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://96FA62BB-5E15-4987-959C-8EABFD777BD5"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 environment}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Hebrews 11:8 makes it clear that Abram forsook his home in obedience to God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s call. He obeyed not even knowing where he was going! He exchanged the known for the unknown, the familiar for the unfamiliar. God called Abram to a new life, but he had to leave his old life behind. In like manner, Christians have been called to a new life of discipleship which involves separation from the past life of sin, separation from the world, and possibly separation from family and friends.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}