{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promises to Abraham begins with the promise of land (12:1). When Abraham left Haran with Sarai, Lot and all of their possessions, they set out for the land of Canaan (12:5). When they arrived, they discovered that the territory was already inhabited by Canaanites. When Abraham arrived at Shechem the Lord appeared and reassured him - \u8220\'93to your offspring I will give this land\u8221\'94 (12:7). The promised land definitely refers to Canaan, also known as Palestine, the land of Israel. In response to God\u8217\'92s reassurance Abraham built an altar and worshiped God. Even though people already inhabited the land, Abraham demonstrated that faith in God\u8217\'92s promise displays itself through actions. He reminds us that faith begins with hearing God\u8217\'92s word and grows as we continue to obey God\u8217\'92s word. A living faith leads to a life of devotion to and worship of God.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 As Abraham continued to explore the land and build altars to God, we know that he was also looking forward to an eternal land, for the Scripture says \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93he was looking forward to the city that has foundations, whose designer and builder is God\u8221\'94. God\u8217\'92s promise to Abraham included the assurance of an eternal city and homeland that transcended Canaan. He journeyed as a foreigner looking forward to the fulfillment of the same promise given to us as Christians - the promise of a new heavens and a new earth (2 Peter 3:13). We will inherit the promise of a renewed universe if we, like Abraham, respond to God in faithful obedience (Romans 4:13). Thus, the promised land not only refers to Canaan but it also is a symbol of the holy city, the New Jerusalem, that will come down out of heaven from God (Revelation 21:2).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Just imagine how the fulfillment of the promised land  would affect Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s life. It would mean removal of the obstacles currently in place in Canaan. He would be able to settle down. He could avoid being exposed to different kinds of dangers, threats and attacks upon his family. In a sense, the fulfillment of the promise would bring victory and rest to Abraham., but it was not fulfilled during his lifetime. In the meantime, Abraham would have to continue to press onward trusting God\u8217\'92s word, guidance, and protection. As Christians, we are commanded to \u8220\'93strive to enter that rest, so that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience. For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart.\~And no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account\u8221\'94 (Hebrews 4:11-13).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 God also promised to make Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s name great (12:2). Waltke writes \u8220\'93in the ancient Near East, a name was not merely a label but a revelation of character. Thus a great name entails not only fame but high social esteem as a man of superior character\u8221\'94 (A Commentary on Genesis, p. 205). God indeed did make Abraham\u8217\'92s name known: Melchizedek, the high priest of God at Salem recognized him as blessed by God (14); the rulers of his day recognized Abraham as a mighty prince (21:22-34; 23:6); and he was known as a prophet (20:7). Furthermore, Abraham\u8217\'92s name is great throughout history as the ancestral father of Jewish and Arab peoples. More importantly, the name of Abraham is synonymous with faith.  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In addition, God promised to bless and make Abraham great so that he would be a blessing to others. In other words, God promised to use Abraham to have positive impact on the world around him and beyond (12:3). As a result of his response to God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s call, Abraham blessed generations of saints with a great example of faith. The NT writers exalt Abraham as the supreme example of what it means to have a faith that God honors (Romans 4; Galatians 3; Hebrews 11:3-10; James 2:18-23). What made Abraham\u8217\'92s faith so great? Was it because he lived a sinless life? No. In fact, Abraham was plagued by many of the same weaknesses and sins as we are. However, Abraham believed God against the odds. He left Haran for the promised land despite not having the details of the plan or of the final destination. He continued to trust God to fulfill his God despite never possessing the land. He believed that he would become the ancestral father of a great nation despite years of unsuccessful attempts to bear children through Sarai. He believed that God would use him to bless the world through the promised Seed - the Savior -  despite his past life of idolatry and paganism.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Thus the greatest blessing to come through Abraham would be Jesus, the promised Seed through whom salvation would be available to all the world. Galatians 3:8-9 says, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the Gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, \u8216\'91In you shall all the nations be blessed.\u8217\'92 So then, those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith.\u8221\'94 This is the climax of God\u8217\'92s promises to Abraham. God\u8217\'92s plan of redemption begins with Abraham in Canaan. The promised seed will come through the great nation of Abraham\u8217\'92s loins, Israel. This promised seed, Jesus, is God\u8217\'92s one and only Son who gave His life to atone for the sins of the entire world (1 John 2:2). }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 However, Jesus triumphed over the grave and after his resurrection He commissioned his followers to \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super \~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Matthew 28:19-20). Just as God called Abraham, we have been called by God through the gospel to follow Jesus, the promised Seed. Those who respond to the gospel are heirs to the promises God made to Abraham. In turn, we are to extend this blessings to others through the teaching and preaching of the gospel. }}