{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s call to leave his country and his family was paired with great promises. What made Abraham\u8217\'92s faith response so remarkable was that his life circumstances would have led most people to reject God\u8217\'92s call. Furthermore, many of the promises were never fully realized during his lifetime. Just as God called Abraham to a difficult journey with great blessings, Jesus calls His people to a similar journey through the Sermon on the Mount. In this sermon, the Lord offer several blessings to potential followers. These blessings include the following:}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness\u8217\'92 sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. (Matthew 5:3,5,10)}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The Lord\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s call to discipleship through the Gospel is a difficult journey for us. The character virtues of humility, meekness, submission to persecution for the sake of righteousness does not appeal to us. However, the promises of finding life in God\u8217\'92s kingdom and inheriting life on the new heavens and earth can only be realized by embarking on this journey. We can experience the blessings offered by Jesus because one man, Abraham, decided to faithfully respond to God\u8217\'92s call thousands of years ago. We have been entrusted with the Gospel message to call all people to follow Christ. This is how we participate in God\u8217\'92s great promise to Abraham that in him all the world will be blessed. As we do so, we have the promise of Christ presence to the end of the age and we can be assured that God will be faithful to His promises.}}