{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In less than ten generations after God commanded Noah and his sons to \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93b}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 e fruitful and multiply and fill the earth\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Ge. 9:3, ESV), mankind had rebelled against God\u8217\'92s mandate and decided to build a world order apart from God\u8217\'92s guidance. It was this type of self-determination which lead the first family (Adam and Eve) to sin against God and plunged humanity into a cesspool of violence and immorality (Ge. 6:1-6). Humanity\u8217\'92s state of being and the conditions on earth grieved the Lord. In an act of judgment and mercy, God sent the Great Flood to destroy mankind, but he spared Noah and his family. This time, God\u8217\'92s reaction to mankind\u8217\'92s rebellion culminating at the Tower of Babel consisted of God dividing the world into nations. Through the lineage of Shem, God will initiate the next phase in His plan to crush the head of the Serpent by choosing one man to be his instrument to bless the world - Abraham.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In Genesis 11:27-32, we learn that Abramham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s family originated in Ur of the Chaldeans. Scholars debate the precise identification of Ur, but most accept modern Tell el-Muqayyar in southern Iraq as the location. Lead by his father Terah, Abraham migrated with his family from Ur to Haran after the death of his brother Haran. Both Ur and Haran were ancient centers for the worship of the moon god Sin - we learn from Joshua 24:2 that Abraham\u8217\'92s family worshipped pagan deities. While living in Haran, Terah died and apparently Abraham (then known as Abram)assumed leadership of the clan which included his barren wife Sarai and his nephew Lot. }}