{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abram understood well the dangerous nature of the call when God commanded him to leave his homeland. As a nomad, he would be a temporary guest in foreign lands where people did not share the same faith as he. Sarai, a very beautiful woman, would become the object of many men\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s desires as they sojourned. Treacherous rulers could possibly kill Abram and take Sarai for themselves. For Abram, following God\u8217\'92s promise involved risking his life. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Self-preservation is a strong human instinct, if not the strongest. When faced with danger we all take actions to either mitigate the danger or escape it. This is not necessarily a bad thing, but God will often use dangerous situations to test our trust in Him. In this episode from Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s life, we see him struggling with fear - fear of losing his life and thereby God\u8217\'92s promise. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In America, rarely does trusting God involve death threats to our lives. However, we often face personal crises which may evoke fear and challenge our trust in the Lord. The question we must answer in these moments is, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93am I going to deal with the crisis my way or God\u8217\'92s way?\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}