{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Now there was a famine in the land. So Abram went down to Egypt to sojourn there, for the famine was severe in the land\u8221\'94 (12:10). After having obeyed God\u8217\'92s call to go to Canaan and receiving reassurance of the promise, Abram is confronted with a difficult trial of his faith - he finds himself in the midst of a severe famine. The future looks dim in Canaan. This situation was an issue of life and death to Abram and his family. He may have asked God at this point, \u8220\'93I thought you were going to make me into a great nation?\u8221\'94 Abram now had to choose between remaining in the land of promise, thus risking starvation or moving on to greener pastures where his family could survive. In Abram\u8217\'92s day Egypt was a popular destination to escape famine because agriculture in Egypt was more dependent on the regular flooding of the Nile river. So, Abram decided to take matters into his own hands and moved his family to Egypt. Did his decision represent a lack of faith in God\u8217\'92s ability to fulfill His promises in Canaan? Maybe so. On the other hand, Abram may have rationalized that a dead man could not father a great nation.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93When he was about to enter Egypt, he said to Sarai his wife, \u8216\'91I know that you are a woman beautiful in appearance, and when the Egyptians see you, they will say, \u8216\'91This is his wife.\u8217\'92 Then they will kill me, but they will let you live. Say you are my sister, that it may go well with me because of you, and that my life may be spared for your sake\u8217\'92\u8221\'94 (12:11-13). There is no doubt that Abram demonstrated a lack of faith driven by fear and self-preservation. Instead of trusting God to protect him, Abram made a self-centered decision to engage in deception. We learn from Genesis 20:13 that when God called him to leave his father\u8217\'92s house, Abram feared losing his life to powerful men in dangerous territories who might be attracted to his beautiful wife. Now that they are about to enter Egypt and face Pharaoh, Abram convinced Sarai to enact their brother-sister narrative so that he might receive a bride price from interested suitors. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Does this sound like the same man who demonstrated great faith by leaving family, friends, and homeland in pursuit of a promise he has not seen? Is this the same man who displayed great devotion to God by building altars of worship to the one true God in pagan lands? Here we see that Abram, known as the friend of God and father of the faithful, struggled with sin and fear as we do today. The Scriptures provide plenty examples of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s faithful succumbing to sin: Noah and his drunkenness; David and Bathsheba; and Peter\u8217\'92s denial of the Lord. Abram\u8217\'92s actions shows how deceitful sin is and that we all need to be watchful and vigilant in prayer because the flesh will never be completely  done away with in this life. We all should keep in mind the admonition \u8220\'93therefore let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall\u8221\'94 (1 Corinthians 10:12).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93When Abram entered Egypt, the Egyptians saw that the woman was very beautiful. And when the princes of Pharaoh saw her, they praised her to Pharaoh. And the woman was taken into Pharaoh\u8217\'92s house. And for her sake he dealt well with Abram; and he had sheep, oxen, male donkeys, male servants, female servants, female donkeys, and camels\u8221\'94 (12:14-16). Abram\u8217\'92s fears become realized. Sarai\u8217\'92s beauty has captured the attention of Pharaoh\u8217\'92s princes and consequently she ends up in Pharaoh\u8217\'92s house! In exchange, Abram is living the high life as he receives animals and servants. What might Sarai be thinking and feeling at this point? Anger? Abandonment? Disappointment? We don\u8217\'92t know Sarai\u8217\'92s state of mind at this point but Abram\u8217\'92s decision jeopardized her, their marriage, and the fulfillment of God\u8217\'92s promises in their lives. His actions reminds us that we often allow circumstances rather than God\u8217\'92s word to drive our behavior. Just as Abram, we make decisions which negatively impact our loved ones and distract us from pursuing God\u8217\'92s will. However, as the narrative proceeds, we discover that by God\u8217\'92s grace and mercy we can get back on track. God is willing and able to guide us back to pursuing His will. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93But the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  afflicted Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s wife. So Pharaoh called Abram and said, \u8216\'91What is this you have done to me? Why did you not tell me that she was your wife? Why did you say, \u8216\'91She is my sister,\u8217\'92 so that I took her for my wife? Now then, here is your wife; take her, and go.\u8217\'92}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super \~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 And Pharaoh gave men orders concerning him, and they sent him away with his wife and all that he had\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (12:17-20). Abram had gotten himself and Sarai into a mess, but God did not give up on him. God did not say, \u8220\'93Abram, since you made such a foolish, fearful decision you\u8217\'92re disqualified from inheriting my promises. I\u8217\'92m going to call someone else to do what you couldn\u8217\'92t!\u8221\'94 Instead, God made it known to Pharaoh  that Sarai was another man\u8217\'92s wife! God delivered Sarai from what appeared to be a hopeless situation. God remained faithful to His promises even though Abram was temporarily unfaithful. What a great God we serve! This episode bears witness to the truth that God \u8220\'93does not deal with us according to our sins, nor repay us according to our iniquities\u8221\'94 (Psalm 103:10). Though Abram was a great man of faith, he did not merit the promises of God.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 After Pharaoh became aware of Sarai\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s marital status, he returned her to Abram and sent them away from Egypt with more possessions than they arrived with. One of those possessions made have included Hagar, Sarai\u8217\'92s personal maid servant. If so, we see that though God shows us mercy and grace through our sins and failures, our choices have enduring consequences. As we live with the ongoing effects of our sinful choices we often struggle with  self-condemnation. However, as with Abram, we must remind ourselves that God is committed to completing His work of transformation within us until the return of Jesus Christ (Philippians 1:6). }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Furthermore, God can use our failures and sins to teach us valuable lessons in order to prevent us from making more tragic decisions in the future. We learn from this episode that the flesh is constantly at war against the Spirit within us and if we let down our guard the old nature will overpower  our best intentions. Satan, the enemy of our souls, seeks our ultimate destruction; therefore, we ought to be vigilant every moment of our lives. The apostle Peter puts it this way: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God so That at the proper time he may exalt you, casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you. Be sober-minded, be watchful. Your adversary the devil prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour\u8221\'94 (1 Peter 5:6-8).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}