{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Though Abraham was a man of great faith, we read that he had \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91feet of clay\u8217\'92 just as we do. When confronted with a dire situation and an encounter with the powerful Egyptians, Abraham resorted to deception because he doubted God\u8217\'92s willingness and ability to deliver him. Abraham focused on the circumstances and allowed fear to drive his decisions rather than faith. This reminds us of the apostle Peter\u8217\'92s experience of walking on water. When he began to focus on the windstorm rather than Jesus, he became afraid and began to sink. The Lord gracefully delivered Peter from drowning just as God delivered Sarai from the clutches of Pharaoh. God provides the same grace to His children today.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The antidote to fear of man and situations is focus on the power and goodness of the Lord. The apostle Paul wrote, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93and}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Romans 8:28). We serve a God who uses the good and bad to accomplish His plans for His people. No matter how dire the situation, how the big the obstacles, or how overwhelming the odds may seem God will protect and guide His people by His providential power.}}