{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93So Abram went up from Egypt, he and his wife and all that he had, and Lot with him, into the Negeb.\u8221\'94 After a temporary lapse of faith in Egypt on Abraham\u8217\'92s part, God delivered Sarah from the hands of the Egyptians. Abraham traveled south through the Negeb back to the area between Bethel and Ai, the place he originally settled after leaving Haran. God has blessed Abraham through his recent episode - he is now \u8220\'93very rich in livestock, in silver, and in gold\u8221\'94, indicating that Abraham left Egypt more wealthy than when he arrived. However, riches (nor failure) did not cause him to forget God for the passage reads \u8220\'93and there Abram called upon the name of the Lord\u8221\'94 (13:4). Abraham had repented of the sin he had committed in Egypt and consequently, God had forgiven and blessed him. As Christians, when we turn from our sins and sincerely call upon the Lord to forgive us, we experience restoration of sweet fellowship with God. In addition, God can use us in greater service than before. As we will discover in the case of Abraham relationship with his nephew Lot, such blessings do not eliminate trials from our lives. }}