{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 And Lot, who went with Abram, also had flocks and herds and tents\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (13:5). Lot was the son of Abraham\u8217\'92s brother, Haran. Obviously the two shared a close bond, for Abraham took Lot under his wings after the death of Haran. He accompanied Abraham when God called him to leave his homeland. As a result of his association with Abraham, Lot prospered and grew wealthy to the point that the land they lived in could not support both their livestock (13:6). Oftentimes we think that more money and wealth will eliminate the problems of our lives, but here we see the opposite - it created more problems and tension! Verse 7 says \u8220\'93and there was strife between the herdsmen of Abram\u8217\'92s livestock and the herdsmen of Lot\u8217\'92s livestock. At that time the Canaanites and the Perizzites were dwelling in the land.\u8221\'94 Increased blessings led to disputing between the herdsmen of Abraham and Lot due to the lack of land resources. This trial presented another test of Abraham\u8217\'92s faith. How will he deal with the conflict amongst his own family caravan? Will he be passive and allow it to boil to the point of severe conflict? Whatever course of action he would decide upon, the native peoples of the land (the Canaanites and Perizzites) would be witnessing the outcome of the situation. Whenever conflicts arise among Christians, we should view such trials as opportunities to bear strong witness for God to a watching world. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Notice Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s loving response - \u8220\'93Then Abram said to Lot, \u8220\'93Let there be no strife between you and me, and between your herdsmen and my herdsmen, for we are kinsmen\u8221\'94 (13:8). Abraham demonstrates love for Lot by expressing his desire to keep peace between their workers. He doesn\u8217\'92t want the conflict to escalate to the point of more strife because he values Lot\u8217\'92s relationship. It should be remembered that Abraham and Sarah have not conceived children, so most likely he views and loves Lot as a son. Furthermore, Lot had demonstrated great loyalty  in joining Abraham as he followed God and sought the promised land. They would have needed to stick together as they faced great dangers and enemies. Therefore, Abraham sought peace to maintain a good relationship with Lot. Whenever we experience conflicts in our relationships, whether they be in the home, church or at work, we should remember the admonition of Paul to \u8220\'93pursue what makes for peace and for mutual up-building\u8221\'94 (Romans 14:19).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 What made Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s response even more remarkable is that he gave Lot the option to choose whatever area he wanted to settle (13:9)! Instead of fighting for his rights to the land because he was the head of the family, the leader, and the person to whom God had promised the land, Abraham demonstrated great humility, generosity and faith in giving up his claim to choose first! Abraham shows what is means to \u8220\'93do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves\u8221\'94 (Php. 2:3). As Christians, we are to relinquish our rights to choose first in order to enrich others. Abraham was able to do this because he firmly believed God\u8217\'92s promise to ultimately give him the land. When we are focused on God promises and secured in Christ, we become less concerned about accumulating money and possessions. When we are willing to seek God and His righteousness above all else, we are able live selflessly because we know that God will meet all of our needs. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Did Lot return the favor by declining first choice to the land? No. In contrast to Abraham, he jumped at the opportunity to enrich himself: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And Lot lifted up his eyes and saw that the Jordan Valley was well watered everywhere like the garden of the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , like the land of Egypt, in the direction of Zoar\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (13:10a). Just as Eve was attracted by the fruit of the forbidden tree (Genesis 3:6), Lot is attracted what he sees in the Jordan Valley where the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah were located. Instead of trusting God and walking by faith, Lot chooses to walk by selfishness and greed. Even though Abraham had demonstrated great love for Lot by rearing him, educating him and contributing blessings to him, Lot chose what he thought was the best thing for himself. Sooner and later, Lot\u8217\'92s choices will prove to be unwise and disastrous for him and all those with him. When we are misled by the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life (as Lot was), we make similar decisions filled with negative spiritual impact. Therefore, we must make decisions such as where to live and work, who to date and marry, and what to entertain ourselves with in light of God\u8217\'92s will. That\u8217\'92s why it is important to \u8220\'93not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect\u8221\'94 (Romans 12:2).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 After Lot separated from him and settled near the wicked men of Sodom, God reaffirmed his promises to Abraham. Lot had selfishly lifted up his eyes and choose land that seemed best for himself settle, but God instructed Abraham, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93lift up your eyes and look from the place where you are, northward and southward and eastward and westward, for all the land that you see I will give to you and to your offspring forever\u8221\'94 (13:14-15). What irony! In a situation in which Abraham seemed to have gotten a raw deal, God lets him know that this is only a temporary setback! God\u8217\'92s sovereign will is to give the entire land (including what Lot chose for himself) to Abraham and his descendants to possess forever. Through this entire ordeal, Abraham lifted up his eyes in humility and selflessness. Through this entire trial, Abraham lifted up his eyes to God in faith and trust. And now God has reaffirmed his covenant with Abraham, letting him know that the current state of affairs will not last forever. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s exemplary faith in this situation reminds us of the Beatitude, \u8220\'93blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth\u8221\'94 (Matt. 5:5). Meekness should not be equated with weakness. We should remember that Abraham was by no means inferior to Lot, for he was a highly skilled military leader who could have easily dominated the situation. By example, he teaches us to be humble, dependent on God, and willing to look not only to our own interests, but also to the interests of others (Php. 2:4). Our Lord Jesus put forth the supreme example of selflessness who \u8220\'93though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that you by his poverty might become rich\u8221\'94 (2 Corinthians 8:9)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abraham also teaches us that the proper response to God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s grace is a life of worship. After the Lord reaffirmed his promises, \u8220\'93Abram moved his tent and came and settled by the oaks of Mamre, which are at Hebron, and there he built an altar to the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (12:18). As }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abraham continued on his journey of faith in Canaan, he worshiped and left witness that the true and living God had promised him the land. On our journey of faith, we are to present ourselves as living sacrifices holy and acceptable to God, which is our spiritual worship (Romans 12:1). In doing so, we bear witness to the mercies of God.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}