{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Genesis 14 provides the account of how Lot and his people became prisoners of war. Driven by worldliness, Lot forfeited the divine protection he enjoyed as part of Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s caravan}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  and gets captured by an invading army, which leads to Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s involvement in the military conflict. We learn that Lot has embedded himself deeply into the wicked culture of Sodom. At first, he chose to camp near Sodom (13:12) but over time he took up residence within the city (14:12). Consequently, Lot will lose his family, property, livestock and wealth. What appeared to be a good decision according to worldly standards will lead to Lot being captured and deported to serve as a slave to the invaders.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The occasion of Lot\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s capture is a war that occurred between two groups of allied kings. Five kings of city-states in Palestine (including Sodom and Gomorrah) revolted against the rule of Chedorlaomer, who had conquered them twelve years prior and collected tribute (taxes) since that time. In response, Chedorlaomer allied himself with three other kings to invade and reassert his rule in Palestine. They swept the entire region around the Dead Sea, recapturing many cities along the way until they ended up the Valley of the Dead Sea near Sodom and Gomorrah. Apparently, the five Palestinian kings went out to battle with superior numbers but were nevertheless defeated in the valley. In fact they suffered such humiliation that the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled as many of their warriors fell into the bitumen (pitch/tar) pits that filled the valley. Chedorlaomer and his forces looted Sodom and Gomorrah, capturing Lot in the process.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 News of this event reached Abraham, but how would he react? Lot had separated from Abraham in selfish pursuit of the best land for his livestock, leaving Abraham to fend for himself. Would Abraham leave Lot to his just desserts? Would Abraham allow resentment and bitterness to guide his behavior? Would he rationalize that Lot has received God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s judgment for relocating to wicked Sodom? Would he say to himself, \u8220\'93he made his own bed, let him lie in it!\u8221\'94 The answer is no. Instead, Abraham will refuse to allow Lot\u8217\'92s worldliness to prevent him to act with courage and compassion. Even though Lot demonstrated that he is looking out for number one, Abraham will exhibit love and loyalty by risking his life, family, and fortune to save him. }}