{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Open Sans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi240\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Then one who had escaped came and told Abram the Hebrew, who was living by the oaks of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol and of Aner. These were allies of Abram\u8221\'94 (14:13). Here, Abram was known as \u8216\'91the Hebrew\u8217\'92, an ethnic term connected with Ebe}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://34839A7B-91F2-431F-8DBB-DFDC01DF088D"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 r.}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  Eber was the last ancestor in the genealogy of Shem before God disrupted the building of the tower of Babel (10:21-25). Abram is a legitimate descendant of Shem, which distinguishes him from the other residents of Canaan. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abram had formed an alliance with Mamre the Amorite and his two brothers prior to the defeat of Sodom and the capture of Lot. Apparently, Abram wisely anticipated the need to ally himself with reliable men who would join him to combat unseen dangers and opposition. He bore witness to the truth of the proverb that says \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93}{\f1\fs24\b1\i0\super \~}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 And though a man might prevail against one who is alone, two will withstand him \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  a threefold cord is not quickly broken\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Ecclesiastes 4:12). We should follow Abram\u8217\'92s example by forming strong relationships with other Christians within the local congregation so that we can have strong spiritual support when facing struggles and opposition. In doing so we fulfill the command to \u8220\'93bear one another\u8217\'92s burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ\u8221\'94 (Galatians 6:2). Our faith journey is filled with burdens which God does not intend for us to carry alone. Therefore, it is important that we form relationships with other Christians in which we support one another. }
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93When Abram heard that his kinsman had been taken captive, he led forth his trained men, born in his house, 318 of them, and went in pursuit as far as Dan\u8221\'94 (14:14). After receiving the report, he organizes a military mission with 318 of his most trusted, trained men to rescue Lot from captivity. In contrast to his actions in Egypt where he allowed fear to rule him, here Abram displays great courage and faith.  When faced with opposition to our faith or with challenging situations that threaten us in some way, we\u8217\'92re often tempted to give in to fear. However,  we must trust that God\u8217\'92s power to protect us guarantees our ultimate victory over all opposition. One such promise can be found in Hebrews 13:5b-6: \u8220\'93for he has said, \u8216\'91I will never leave you nor forsake you.\u8217\'92 So we can confidently say, \u8216\'91The Lord is my helper; I will not fear; what can man do to me?\u8217\'92\u8221\'94. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s mission to rescue Lot ended with the defeat of the enemies. Verse 16 says, \u8220\'93then he brought back all the possessions, and also brought back his kinsman Lot with his possessions, and the women and the people.\u8221\'94 Despite the formidable opposition he faced, Abram had successfully organized and executed a mission to save Lot and the people with him. We should note that Abram could have made several excuses let Lot remain in captivity: 1) Lot had acted selfishly in taking the best land for himself; 2) Lot was worldly and deserving of the circumstances he fell into or 3) Lot\u8217\'92s captors were strong and formidable. Instead, Abram refused to let Lot remain enslaved to his captors. Oftentimes we adopt a negative attitude towards our fellow Christians who \u8216\'91mess up\u8217\'92 their lives through poor decisions. We must remember Scripture teaches us that whenever a fellow Christian \u8220\'93is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness\u8221\'94 (Galatians 6:1). Whenever we see a fellow Christian enslaved or ensnared in sin, we are to act with courage and love to do all we can to free them. This requires the humility to recognize that we all are susceptible to sins such as immorality, drunkenness, drugs, gluttony, lust, worldly ambition, etc. Keeping in mind that Christ died for us while we were sinners (and his enemies!) should help us to adopt the proper attitude we need in such situations. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Through this event, God was fulfilling His promise to make Abram\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s name great (Genesis 12:2). Melchizedek, the king of Salem and priest of God, recognized this and hosted a royal banquet declaring Abram as blessed and protected by \u8220\'93God Most High, Possessor of heaven and earth\u8221\'94 (Genesis 14:19-20a). In the presence of thousands of Canaanites who had just been freed, Melchizedek praised God as the One behind Abram\u8217\'92s success! By God\u8217\'92s power, Abram had just brought stability and peace to the land of Canaan, thus being an instrument of God\u8217\'92s blessing to others. His victory bore witness to the greatness of the one true God! In Matthew 5:16 Jesus commanded \u8220\'93In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven.\u8221\'94 As we live out our faith other people will notice. When that happens, we should use such opportunities to direct their attention to God.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In response to Melchizedek\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s recognition, Abram gave him a tenth of the possessions he gained in the victory (Genesis 14:20b). This is the first explicit reference in Scripture to what will become known as the \u8216\'91tithe\u8217\'92. In giving him a tenth of everthing, Abram recognized Melchizedek as the legitimate priest and king of his }{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://9C28E259-FCBB-4D32-B2ED-D1E68DD0A959"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\b0\i0 God}}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . On the other hand, when the king of Sodom approached him with a proposal to share the spoils of war, Abram responded \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I have lifted my hand to the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , God Most High, Possessor of heaven and earth, that I would not take a thread or a sandal strap or anything that is yours, lest you should say, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8216\'91I have made Abram rich\u8217\'92\u8221\'94 (Genesis 14:22b-23). Evidently, the wicked king had ulterior motives behind his proposal which would had indebted Abram in the eyes of the Canaanites. Abram refuses to compromise and gives all the possessions he acquired to his allies Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre. In doing so, Abram expresses his complete dependence upon God to supply his needs. Let us remember that God richly provides for all of our needs \u8220\'93according to His riches in glory in Christ Jesus\u8221\'94 (Philippians 4:19).}}