{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In Genesis 14, we see a confident and decisive Abraham who showed great faith in God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s presence and protection.  Consequently, he brought blessing to a great number of people and glory to God in the process. This stands in contrast to what happened in Egypt, where his actions brought affliction upon the household of Pharaoh. However, God continued to be faithful to His promises and mightily used Abraham to overcome great obstacles as he rescued Lot. Abraham\u8217\'92s example shows us that God can accomplish great things in our lives despite our past sins, failures, and ever-present weaknesses. The apostle Paul pleaded with God to remove a thorn from his life, but the thorn served the purpose of keeping him humble. At Paul\u8217\'92s lowest point of desperation, the Lord spoke to him \u8220\'93my grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness\u8221\'94 (2 Corinthians 12:9). As we rebound from falling in our walk of faith, let us depend upon God\u8217\'92s grace to accomplish His purpose for our lives. Let us show corrective compassion toward our fellow Christians who mess up while remaining aware of the deceitfulness of sin. Let us live above reproach in seeking to do all things to the glory of God. }}