{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In Genesis 14, Abraham demonstrated great faith in God by saving Lot and defeating a powerful Mesopotamian alliance lead by Chedorlaomer. God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise to make Abraham\u8217\'92s great began to be fulfilled at the great banquet attended by God\u8217\'92s high priest, Melchizedek. Refusing to compromise with the king of Sodom, Abraham demonstrated appreciation to his own alliance by giving them the spoils of the victory. Things seem to be looking up for Abraham.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 However, Abraham (and Sarai) have yet to give birth to a biological son through whom he would become a great nation. Years had passed since the initial call to leave his homeland and now Abraham was beginning to wonder if God intended to bless him with a son through Sarai. Like Abraham, we often experience a certain level of doubt when circumstances and events call into question God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s goodness or love. Oftentimes, personal struggles lead us to question God\u8217\'92s ability to transform us to be more like Christ. At other times, we trust our emotions to be a more reliable guide to reality than the truth of God\u8217\'92s words.  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We will discover in Genesis 15 that God doesn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t abandon us during seasons of doubt. Rather, God provides the assurances we need to continue to walk by faith. }}