{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The events in Genesis 16 illustrates what often happens when God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s timing does not meet our expectations. God had appeared to Abram in a powerful way to reaffirm His promises and to establish a covenant with Abram. The Lord provided specific territorial details and a time line for the fulfillment of the land promise. However, after having lived in Canaan for 10 years, Abram and Sarah remained childless. Consequently, Sarah grew restless, got tired of waiting for the promised seed and initiated a plan to shorten the delay. Unfortunately, the implementation of her plan will create much domestic strife. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Sarah\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s state of barrenness created much emotional distress for her. In Bible times, both OT and NT, to be a wife without bearing children was regarded as a matter of regret and social disgrace (Meiklejohn, p.123). It was also considered a curse from God, as will become evident in Sarah\u8217\'92s demand of Abram to produce a child through Hagar, her maid servant (Genesis 16:2). At this point in the narrative, Sarah\u8217\'92s back is flat against the wall. She\u8217\'92s getting no younger and the situation is dire. So, we can fully empathize with the reasoning \u8220\'93Doesn\u8217\'92t God help those who help themselves? I\u8217\'92ve got to have a child now while I can!\u8221\'94 More often than not, this type of reasoning leads us to become impatient with God\u8217\'92s timing and will, thus creating painful consequences.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0  }}