{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This episode in the life of Abraham, Sarah and Hagar reveals to us many things and challenges us in several ways. For one, God cares for those who have been victimized and rejected. Abraham and Sarah used Hagar outside of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s will and pushed her away, but God sought her out in the middle of the desert. As God\u8217\'92s people, we should imitate God by seeking to show His love to those who live on the fringe of society.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Also, God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s plans and promises are not derailed by our sins and failures. Abraham and Sarah made a bad decision that proved to have far-reaching effects. Ishmael will display a strong independent spirit and will give rise to people who live in fierce opposition to their neighbors. However, the multiplication of Ishmael\u8217\'92s descendants fulfills God\u8217\'92s original promise make Abraham\u8217\'92s offspring to be as the number of stars in the sky (Genesis 15:5). God will also remain faithful to His covenant to make Abraham a great nation through Sarah. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We must remember that the desires of the flesh, which wars against what God desires for us, often manifest itself in the form of impatience. In addition, those closest to us can become the sources of temptation to lead us down the wrong path. Sarah may have had good intentions in giving Hagar to Abraham, but her impatience led to unnecessary complications for their family. When we attempt to take control to try to achieve God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s blessings and purposes outside of His will, we should expect negative effects. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Waiting on God is not something most do well, but we must seek to be \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises\u8221\'94 (Hebrews 6:12b). When we find ourselves in prolonged periods of distress, loneliness, or struggle, discontentment can easily become a way of life. The life of faith requires that we accept God\u8217\'92s timing for change and/or deliverance. If we don\u8217\'92t find escape from the troubles we experience, God will provide the strength we need to survive. Living by faith in God does not mean our lives will be filled with ease and comfort. However, we must trust that God sees and pays attention to us through all the seasons of life. Just as God worked in the life of Hagar, God continues to be present with us through our difficulties. We may only can see just far enough to make the next step, but that step should only be taken as we live in fellowship with God, listen to His voice through His word, and keep the pathway of prayer open.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}