{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Thirteen years prior to the events in Genesis 17, Sarai gave Hagar as a concubine to Abram to bear children. In doing so, she displayed impatience with God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise and started a cycle of conflict which shook Abram\u8217\'92s household. Hagar ends up fleeing from Sarai but does not reach her final destination because she encounters the angel of the Lord who comforts her with God\u8217\'92s promise and commands her to return to Sarai. Hagar gave birth to Ishmael when Abram was 86 years old, but the child is not given to Sarai. Sarah\u8217\'92s ill-advised plan to build a family apart from God\u8217\'92s promise failed and proved true the proverb \u8220\'93m}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 any are the plans in the mind of a man, but it is the purpose of the }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0\scaps Lord}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  that will stand\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 (Proverbs 19:21).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abram is now ninety-years old, Sarai eighty-nine, and }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 it appears that God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise to provide the couple with a child will not be fulfilled since both are well beyond childbearing age. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Ishmael is now entering manhood and Abram had probably resigned to believe that he was bound to be the son of promise. During the years of divine silence Abram had raised Ishmael, developed a deep bond with him, and had probably become content and comfortable with the way life unfolded so far. Like Abram, we can become comfortable with the way things are going. We can fall victim to complacency and subsequently forget the promises and calling of God upon our lives. Genesis 17 shows us how God aroused Abram from such a state of comfort. }}