{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A manifestation in which God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s presence is made visible and recognizable  is called theophany (an appearance of God). Thus far we have seen that God communicated with and appeared to Abraham in various  ways (12:1-3; 12:7; 13:14; 15:1; 17:1). In Genesis 17 God appeared to 99-year old Abram to reaffirm His promises and covenant with Abram and his descendants. In doing so, God gave Abram and Sarai new names and identities reflective of their roles in God\u8217\'92s plan, established circumcision as the sign of the covenant, and told Abraham that Sarah would give birth to a son within one year. Abraham laughed at God\u8217\'92s plans for Sarah and asks God to make Ishmael the covenant heir. God promised to bless Ishmael but Isaac would be the elect son through whom God\u8217\'92s covenant will continue. Abraham faithfully accepted God\u8217\'92s plan by responding in obedience to God\u8217\'92s command to circumcise all the male members of his household.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In Genesis 18, a special theophany occurs. The Lord and two angels  visit Abraham in human form. Abraham will show himself to be a man of great hospitality during their visit. The Lord will reiterate that Sarah will bear a son within a year\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s time, but we will learn that Sarah had a hard time believing the Lord. Like we do today, the heroes and heroines of faith sometimes found it difficult to acknowledge that God\u8217\'92s power could transform their lives. In addition, the Lord will reveal to Abraham His impending judgment upon Sodom and Gomorrah which will prompt Abraham to intercede for the cities\u8217\'92 pardon.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}