{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Genesis 18 presents an intimate picture of the relationship between the Lord and Abraham. This picture is a symbol of the relationship Jesus desires to have with every believer: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and eat with him, and he with me\u8221\'94 (Revelation 3:20). In a day and age when spiritual lukewarmness seems to be the norm, the Lord\u8217\'92s invitation is for us to renew ourselves in a close relationship with Him. Such a renewal begins with a commitment to pay attention to and obey the teachings of Christ given in Scripture. We must recapture the zeal and delight we had for God\u8217\'92s word when we were first converted to Christ. By the power of the Spirit, we must examine our lives by the truth of God\u8217\'92s word and allow His word transform our minds. In doing so, we grow in our ability to discern and live according to God\u8217\'92s will. Friends of Christ are characterized by obedient fellowship with Christ (John 15:14).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In this text we also see Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 compassion and }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 high concern for justice. He didn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t want to destiny of righteous people to be tied to the wicked ones in Sodom. Consequently, he humbly appealed to God\u8217\'92s just nature to withhold judgment for the sake of the righteous.  Due to his intimate knowledge of God\u8217\'92s mercy and righteousness, Abraham was in a position to negotiate with the Lord. If we want to be in a similar position, we must commit ourselves to abide in Christ or to \u8220\'93seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness\u8221\'94 (Matt 6:33). Once we are properly related to the Lord, we should not refrain from asking, seeking, and knocking in prayer.}}