{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Finally, the day has come! The birth of Isaac in Genesis 21 was the culmination of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s promise to Abraham originally given in ch. 12, where the Lord promised to make the patriarch into a great nation. The Lord visited Sarah one year earlier to announce Isaac\u8217\'92s birth, but she laughed in unbelief. Now God will have the last laugh because he intervened to deliver Sarah from a hopeless situation - infertility. God intervenes at the right time to shape history and fulfill His purposes. Sometimes He does this for judgment, as He did in the case of Sodom and Gomorrah, but now He does so for the sake of salvation.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Abraham was seventy-five years old when he left his homeland. Why would God delay Isaac\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s birth twenty-five years after His initial call of Abraham? Why wait until Abraham and Sarah were well beyond childbearing years? Throughout the waiting process, the couple experienced several tests of their faith which resulted in successes and failures. Over the long haul they proved themselves to be faithful. We all experience tests of our faith that require us to trust God\u8217\'92s provisions. How will we respond? Will we allow circumstances to fill us with fear and doubt? Or, will we live by God\u8217\'92s word even when we find ourselves in a long season of barrenness? }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}