{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The conflict between Hagar and Sarah makes it\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s way into the NT as an allegory (Galatians 4:21-32). Hagar, identified with Sinai, represents the Law given to Moses. Anyone who attempts to be justified before God on the basis law-keeping or good works are offspring of the slave woman Hagar. The Law was given for a limited period in order to make us realize how much we needed a Savior. Those who accept God\u8217\'92s offer of salvation in Christ through faith are the children of the free woman, offspring of the promise. According to Scripture, everyone regardless of biological lineage, has the opportunity to be a spiritual child of Abraham: \u8220\'93for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus\u8221\'94 (Galatians 3:27-28).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In the birth of Isaac we see that God is ever true to His word. The foundation of the Christian life is the faithfulness of God. This foundation enables us to \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93hold fast to the confession of our hope without wavering\u8221\'94 (Hebrews 10:23). Though we may struggle with personal weakness, stumble over obstacles, and stray onto the wrong path God can weave the tangled threads of our lives into His sovereign purposes. He has given us the Scriptures to provide us wisdom and guidance to face the problems and crises of life. In addition, we must remember that the future lies in God\u8217\'92s all-powerful hands and that we \u8220\'93by God\u8217\'92s power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time\u8221\'94 (1 Peter 1:5).}}