{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In many ways, the near-sacrifice of Isaac foreshadowed the actual sacrifice of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s Son, Jesus. Because Abraham loved God, he was willing to sacrifice Isaac; because God so loved the world, He sacrificed His Son so that we might have eternal life (John 3:16). Abraham believed that God could resurrect Isaac; God did resurrect His Son \u8220\'93from the dead and seated him at His right hand in the heavenly places\u8221\'94 (Ephesians 3:20). In Isaac, we see no evidence of a struggle against Abraham; our Lord Jesus \u8220\'93humbled himself by becoming obedient of death, even death on a cross\u8221\'94 (Philippians 2:8). God provided a ram as a substitute for Isaac; Jesus is \u8220\'93the lamb of God, who takes away the sins of the world\u8221\'94 (John 1:29). Because of his willingness, Abraham received great reassurance and joy of the Lord\u8217\'92s commitment to His covenant; Jesus \u8220\'93for the joy that was set before him endured the cross\u8221\'94 (Hebrews 12:2). }
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The book of James uses Abraham\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s actions to explain that true faith in God displays itself in active obedience (James 2:21-23). Following God cannot be limited to lip service or head knowledge. Following God requires commitment to trust Him at every turn of life. The journey of faith is filled with difficulties that test our resolve and fill our minds with questions of God\u8217\'92s power and goodness. When we encounter such hardships we should look to the example of Abraham. Through times of doubt, conflict, and personal failure God remained with and strengthened Abraham. On the other hand, Abraham lived in close fellowship with the Lord. He remained open to the Lord\u8217\'92s guidance and responded to His continual calls to obedience. Consequently, Abraham learned more about the character of the Lord. His devotion to the Lord grew to the point of supreme faith in God and His promises. The record of Abraham\u8217\'92s life of faith was given to us for our benefit, \u8220\'93for whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope\u8221\'94 (1 Corinthians 15:4).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}